[Chapter 2] - 트포 + 앤드류 wks

Rule

structural
ambiguity

(42) The President could not ratify the treaty. - structurally ambiguous
= (1) It would not be possible for the President to ratify the treaty. > ‘not’
modifies/has within its scope the modal ‘could’
(2) It would be possible for the president not to ratify the treaty. > ‘not’ modifies/
has cope over the VP ‘ratify the treaty’
> ‘not’ may have scope either over M, or over VP

phrasal verb

(55) John rang up his mother.
→ The particle ‘up’ forms a constituent together with the Verb.

Movement rule

Only (complete) phrasal constituents can undergo Movement (from one position
in a sentence to another.)

Sentence-fragm
ents

Only phrasal constituents (=whole phrases) can serve as sentence-fragments (in
an appropriate context).

Adverbs like ‘certainly’ are S-adverbs, and hence can only be attached to an
S-node.

Adverbs like ‘completely’ are VP-adverbs, and hence can only be attached to a
VP-node.

Coordination
principle

Only constituents can be conjoined; nonconstituent sequences cannot be
conjoined.

Only identical categories can be conjoined, idiomatically.

Shared
Constituent
Coordination

Shared Consituent Coordination is only possible where the shared string is a
possible constituent of each of the conjuncts.

VP Ellipsis

Only VPs can undergo Ellipsis (under appropriate discourse conditions).

Gapping

- When a Verb is gapped, any Modal preceding it can also be gapped along with
the Verb, even if the two do not form a continuous sequence.
- As far as Gapping is concerned, the whole expression ‘put off’ is treated as a a
single ‘compound verb’ and the whole pexression ‘put off’ should be gapped
along with ‘would’.

Page

66

70

72

74

74

76

81

83

98

Strict Adjacency
Principle

An NP complement of a Verb must be positioned strictly adjacent to (i.e. right
next to) its Verb

102

[Chapter 3] - 트포 + 앤드류 wks

Rule

nodes, branches, terminal nods, nonterminal nodes, label

dominate

A dominates B if A occurs higher up the tree than B, and is connected to B by an
unbroken set of solid lines(branches).

immediately
dominate

A immediately dominates B if A is the next highest node up in the tree and is
connected to B by a single branch (solid line).

precede

A precedes B if A occurs to the left of B on the printed page and neither node
dominates the other.

Page

110

immediately
precede

constituent

A precedes B if A occurs immediately to the left of B

nodes may be related either by precedence or by dominance, but not by both

111

- A set of nodes form a constituent iff they are exhaustively dominated by a
common node (=if they all branch out of a single node, and if there are no other
nodes branching out of the same single node);
- X is a constituent of Y iff X is dominated by Y

immediate
constituent

X is an immediate constituent of Y iff X is immediately dominated by Y.
*iff=if and only if

mother, daughter

If A immediately dominates B, then A is the mother of B, and B is the daughter of
A.

sister

c-command

A set of nodes are sisters if they are all immediately dominated by the same
(mother) node.

- A c-commands B iff the first branching node dominating A dominates B, and A
does not dominate B, nor B dominate A. (a branching node is a node which
branches into two or more immediate constituents)
- A node c-commands its sisters and their descendants (A is a descendant of B if
A is dominated by B)
- A c-commands B > A is higher up than B in the tree, or at the same level as B;
A is not subordinate to B, so that A does not occur at a lower level in the tree
than B.

anaphora

- an expression that cannot have independent reference (cannot refer to some
other group of people outside the sentence)
- take its reference from some other expression within the sentence
- reflexives, reciprocals

112

113

114

115

116

- When an anaphor lacks a compatible antecedent, it is uninterpretable, and the
resulting sentence is semantically ill-formed.
- (14a): ‘Each other’ requires an antecedent denoting a set of two or more
entities, and ‘John’ is a single individual: given that ‘John’ cannot be the
antecedent of ‘each other’, and that there is no other expression which could
serve as the antecedent, then the anaphor ‘each other’ is uninterpretable.
- (14b): ‘I’ is not an appropriate antecedent for himself (since I is a first person
Pronoun, and himself is a third person form), and there is no other compatible
antecedent in the sentence, so that ‘himself’ cannot be assigned reference and is
uninterpretable.
- (14c, d): There is no possible antecedent at all for te anaphors ‘each other’ or
‘themselvees’, so they are uninterpretable.

- (13b) John and Mary despise themselves: John despises John, and Mary
despises Mary.
- (13c) John and Mary despise each other: John despises Mary and Mary

117

despises John.

An anaphor must have an appropriate c-commanding antecedent.

c-command
condition on
anaphors

- (17b) The reflexive anaphor ‘themselves’ cannot have the NP ‘the soldiers’ as
its antecedent, and since there is no alternative possible antecedent, the
anaphor is uninterpretable, and the sentence is ill-formed.
- [the soldiers’] does not c-command ‘themselves’.
- NP [the soldiers’ behavior] does satisfy the c-command condition, but is ruled
out by the appropriateness condition (‘themselves’ requires an antecedent
denoting more than one entity, and [the soldeirs’ behavior] is clearly a single
entity.

- (19) The men will shoot the arrows at each other.
= 1. Arrows are being shot at other arrows.
2. Arrows are being shot by men at other men.

No crossing
branches
contraint

If one node A precedes another node B, then A and all descendants of A must
precede B and all descendants of B.
- Two branches cannot intersect each other.
- There cannot be noncontinuous constituents.

118

119

121

Lexicalization
principle

Any lexical item listed in the dictionary as belonging to a given word-category can
be inserted under any corresponding (terminal) category node in any P-marker.

125

NPI ‘ever’

‘Ever’ is an Adverbial expression (ADVP) which occurs as an immediate
constituent of S. In negative sentences, ‘ever’ must be preceded and
c-commanded by a negative constituent (e.g. by a negative Modal, or by a Noun
Phrase containing the negative Determiner ‘no’ as one of its immediate
constituents)

(85a) I detest loud singing.: The singer is someone else.
(85b) I detest singing loudly.: The speaker I is also the singer.

wks
7pg

(86a) John enjoyed a reading of The Bald Soprano.: John is listening to someone
else reading out loud.
(86b) John enjoyed reading The Bald Soprano.: John himself is the reader.

(96a) John’s driving a Mercedes astonished his creditors.: The fact that John was
driving a Mercedes astonished his creditors.
(96b) John’s driving of the Mercedes terrified his passengers.: The manner in
which John was driving the Mercedes terrified his passengers.

(98a) The shooting of the hunters was awful. - ambiguous
> ‘The hunters’ can be interpreted either as the patient of ‘shooting’ (the factive
interpretation), or as the agent (the manner interpretation).

wks
8pg

[Chapter 4] - 트포 + 앤드류 wks

Rule

determiner

Determiners in English modify a type of nominal phrase which is smaller than a
full Noun Phrase.

pronominalizatio
n

Only a unitary constituent can be replaced by a proform and only a phrasal
constituent of some sort.

In an NP such as [the king of England], the postnominal PP [of England] expands
the head Noun king into the N-bar [king of England], while the Determiner the
expands the N-bar [king of England] into the N-double-bar [the king of England].

Determiners expand N-bar into N-double-bar

expand개념

structures of
determiners,
adjuncts,
complements

Adjuncts expand N-bar into N-bar

Complements expand N into N-bar

sentence
fragments

Only full Phrases can occur as sentence fragments.

Determiners, complements, adjuncts are optional constituents of NP.

A Noun which has an overt Complement is simply an N (and cannot be replaced
by the pro-N-bar ‘one’), whereas a Noun which lacks a Complement has the
status of N-bar (as well as N; and can be replaced by the pro-N-bar ‘one’.).

sisters,
daughters

Determiners are sisters of N’ and daughters of N’’

CPT vs AJT:
structural
ambiguity

Adjuncts are sisters and daughters of N’

Complements are sisters of N and daughters of N’

a student [of high moral principles]

(i) if the bracketed PP is a Complement of the head Noun student:
a person who studies high moral principles
(ii) if the bracketed PP is an Adjunct of the head Noun student:
a student who has high moral principles

CPT vs AJT:
semantic nature

Each N-bar specifies a ‘semantic property.’

CPT vs AJT:
stacking

PP adjuntcs can be ‘stacked’ but PP Complements cannot.
PP adjuncts can be stacked on top of each other in any order.

CPT vs AJT:
replacement by
pro-N’

N-bar constituents can be replaced by the pro-N-bar one in an appropriate
context.

CPT vs AJT:
ordinary
coordination

Adjuncts and Complements are attached at different levels.
(Complements are sisters of N, and hence are attached at the N level; whereas
Adjuncts are sisters of N-bar, and hence are attached at the N-bar level.)

Only constituents at the same level can be coordinated.

Since both Complements and Adjunts are daughters of N-bar, our analysis

Page

172

175

175

176

176

176

180

181

187

187

187

187

188

188

189

189

190

190

190

correctly predicts that the Noun + Complement sequence [student of physics]
and the Noun + Adjunct sequence [student with long hair] have the same
constituent status of N-bar, and so can be coordinated with themselves and each
other in such a way that the whole conjoined sequence forms an N-bar, and thus
can be modified by a Determiner such as the.

CPT vs AJT:
extraposition

PP Adjuncts can be extraposed from their Heads (i.e. separated from their
Heads and moved to the end of their Clause) more freely than PP Complements
> The more closely related a PP is to its Head, the less freely it can be
extraposed.

We might suppose that it is there is a greater structural affinity between Heads
and Complements than between Heads and Adjunts, that Complements are
more resistant to being extraposed.

CPT vs AJT:
preposing

NP which is the Object of a Preposition heading a Complement PP can be
preposed more freely than an NP which is the Object of a Preposition heading an
Adjunct PP.

CPT vs AJT:
co-occurrence
restrictions

In the case of a PP Complement, there are severe restrictions on the choice of P
heading the PP; particular Nouns require/subcategorize a PP introduced by a
particular Preposition. By contrast, the type of PP which functions as an Adjunct
can be used to modify any type of head Noun.

CPT vs AJT:
ordering

CPT vs AJT:
subcategorizatio
n

structural
ambiguity

structure of
attribute

definition of an
attribute

Complements are more closely linked to their head Nouns than Adjuncts.

Subcategorization restrictions hold only between a head and its sisters, not
between a Head and its more distant relatives (e.g. aunts).

a woman with three children with ginger hair

the Adjunct PP [with ginger hair] might be taken to modify either the N-bar
[woman with three children], or the N-bar children.
It might be either the woman or the children who have ginger hair.

Attibutes recusively expand N-bar into N-bar

Attributes are simply prenominal Adjuncts.

(101) a Cambridge Physics student
= 1. a student of Physics (who is) at Cambridge
2. a student of Cambridge Physics (i.e. the particular brand of physics taught at
Cambridge)

Attribute vs CPT:
word-order

Complements must come closer to their Head Noun than Attributes.

Attribute vs CPT:
stacking

Many attribute NPs can be stacked on top of each other.
Attributes can be freely stacked on top of each other in any order.

Complemment Rule is not recursive, so that we predict that Complement NPs
cannot be recursively stacked.

Assign a separate primary stress to each separate N-bar (i.e. to an appropriate
syllable of an appropriate word in each N-bar)

Phonological
difference
between Attibute
and CPT

(i) someone who teachers English = an ENglish teacher
(ii) a teacher who is English = an ENglish TEAcher

191

191

191

192

192

192

196

197

197

197

199

200

202

215

215

Page

231

233

233

234

235

235

236

236

238

[Chapter 5] - 트포 + 앤드류 wks

Rule

V’ 존재 증거

Only a V-bar, not a whole VP can be fronted. (10) - 학자마다 설명 다름 주의

VP CPT vs. AJT:
1. Structural
ambiguity

(16a) He may decide on the boat. - PP [on the boat] CPT vs. AJT
(16b) He couldn’t explain last night. - NP [last night] CPT vs. AJT

VP CPT vs. AJT:
2. Passivization

An NP in a Complement PP can generally be passivized, whereas an NP in an
Adjunct PP cannot.

VP CPT vs. AJT:
3.
Pronominalizatio
n

The phrase ‘do so’ functions as a pro-V-bar.
(21a) John will buy the book on Tuesday.
The pro-V-bar ‘do so’ can replace either [buy the book on Tuesday] or [buy the
book], suggesting that both of these are V-bar constituents.
*V’ 개수만큼 do so가 받을 수 있는게 늘어남

VP CPT vs. AJT:
4. Ordering

If the Complement Phrase and the Adjunct Phrase co-occur within the same VP,
the Complement will precede the Adjunct. (Complements will always occur closer
to their heads than Adjuncts.)

VP CPT vs. AJT:
5. Co-occurence
restrictions

Head categories impose Subcategorization restrictions on the range of possible
Complements they permit, but not on the range of Adjuncts with which they can
occur.

VP CPT vs. AJT:
6. Obligatory /
optional

VP CPT vs. AJT:
7. Ellipsis

VP CPT vs. AJT:
8. Gapping

VP CPT vs. AJT:
9. Emphatic
reflexives

completely:
VP-Adv vs.
V’-Adv

A’ 증거:
1.obligatory

A‘ 증거:
2. Ordinary
Coordination

A’ 증거:
3. Proform ‘so’

Complements tend to be (though are not always) obligatory, whereas Adjuncts
are always optional. > Obligatory constituents must be Complements.

Any phrasal expansion of V (higher/lower V-bar, or VP) can undergo Ellipsis
(under appropriate discourse conditions). > a V and all its Complements, with or
without its Adjuncts can be ellipsed.

Gapping of a V may not leave more than one Complement of V within the
containing V-bar.
(Gapping leaves a ‘gap’ in the middle of some phrase/clause; the verb of a
clause can be gapped(=omitted) when it is identical to the verb of another
clause.)

Emphatic reflexives cannot occur as sisters to V (though can occur as s isters of
V-bar).

238

If we posit that the Aspectual Auxiliaries (progressive ‘be’, perfective ‘have’, etc.)
are verbal Specifiers, then attributive Adverbials (e.g. ‘completely’, ‘utterly’) can
only be positioned to the immediate left of V’bar, not to the left of the Aspectual
Specifiers of V-bar. > Adverbials like ‘completely’ are V-bar attributes that expand
V-bar into V-bar.

240

The PP [of Mary] is a Complement of the Adjective ‘fond’ because it is obligatory.

243

[fond of Mary] and [proud of her] can be coordinated > they are constituents of
the same type (A-bar constituents).

243

’So’ functions as a pro-A-bar. [fond of Mary] can be replaced by the proform ‘so’.

243

AP 증거:
Preposing

though-movement:
[Fond of Mary in some ways] though he is, he doesn’t really love her.

244

AP attributes:
2. Word-order

structural
ambiguity ‘so’

AP CPT vs. AJT:
1.obligatory

typical Complement property of being obligatory vs. typical Adjunct property of
being optional

AP CPT vs. AJT:
2. Word-order

AP CPT vs. AJT:
3. Proform ‘so’

Complements must occur closer to their heads than Adjuncts.

A-bar constituents can be proformed by the pro-A-bar ‘so’.

AP attributes:
1.stacking

ADVPs of the appropriate class can be recursively stacked on top of A-bar
constituents.

244

244

244

245

Attributes will always occur closer to their head Adjective than Determiners.

245

(66a) so utterly incompetent
‘So’ can quantify both an A-bar and an ADV-bar > (66a) is structurally ambiguous
as between whether ‘so’ quantifies the A’[utterly incompetent], or the ADV’
[utterly].

Endocentricity
Constraint

The output of a rule must contain a category of the same type as the input
category, but one bar-level lower.

Modifier
Maximality
Constraint

Theory of
Markedness

Every non-head term in the expansion of a rule must itself be a Maximal
Projection of some category.

The unmarked word-order in English is head-first and specifier-first, and that the
mirror image head-last and specifier-last orders represent a marked construction.
Marked constructions are subject to heavy lexical and stylistic constraints.

246

259

263

275

[Chapter 6]

Morphological property
of Modal Auxiliaries

Modal Auxiliaries lack nonfinite forms and are intrinsically finite.

Subjunctive clauses

Subjunctive clauses are finite.

Neither indicative nor subjunctive Clauses can be subjectless, whereas
nonfinite Clauses can be subjectless.

The Subject of either an indicative or a subjunctive Clause is always
assigned Nominative case.

The Subject of an infinitive Clause is assigned Objective case.

The Subject of a gerund Clause is assigned either Objective or Genitive
case.

We have two major types of finite Clause (indicative and subjunctive), and
three major types of untensed Clause (infinitival, gerundive, and participial.)

Gapping

Gapping can only take place when S constituents are conjoined, not when
S-bar constituents are conjoined.

Overt complementizer
in main clauses

Main Clauses can never contain an overt complementiser in English.

Both Complementisers and inverted Auxiliaries occupy the pre-subject C
position: when the C position is already filled by the Complementiser 'whether',
inversion of the Auxiliary is not possible.

S-bar status of ordinary
clauses

All Ordinary Clauses have the status of S-bar constituents of teh schematic
form [C S], and thus contain a C constituent which may either be filled (e.g. by
an overt Complementiser or an inverted Auxiliary) or left empty.

C can either be filled by a Complementiser or by an inverted Auxiliary, or it can
be left empty.

All Ordinary Clauses contain ‘an element (‘INFL’ = ‘inflection’) indicating in
particular whether the Clause is finite or infinitival’

Any Clause which contains C contains a compatible I.

Subjunctive Clauses require an overt Complementizer

All Ordinary Clauses contain an I constituent, which may be either filled (e.g.
by a Modal if I is finite, or by infinitival to if I is nonfinite), or left empty.

An NP which is a sister of a finite I is assigned Nominative case.

If a finite I is filled (by a Modal), the relevant Tense/Agreement properties of I
are realised on the item in I; but that if I is empty (i.e. contains no Modal), then
the relevant Tense/Agreement properties are realized on the leftmost V of VP.

The finite verbal inflections present -e(s) and past -(e)d are I-inflections
whereas their nonfinite counterparts -ing and -(en) are V-inflections.

Items (such as Modals) which lack -ing and -en forms must be generated
under I, whereas items which have -ing-and -en forms must be generated
within NP (e.g. Aspecutual Auxiliaries and Nonauxiliary Verbs).

The Predicate Nominals agree with the Subject of their own Clause.

Evidence for PRO
analysis
1. Agreement

PRO inherits the Number, Gender, and Person of its Antecedent

289

291

291

292

292

292

292

294

295

299

301

302

304

307

308

309

309

311

313

314

315

Evidence for PRO
analysis
2. Reflexives

Reflexives require a clausemate antecedent (an antecedent within their own
clause)

In the unmarked case, any category can be either empty or filled.

Exceptional Clauses

Exceptional Complement Clauses have the status of S.

Property of Exceptional
Clauses #1

Exceptional Complement Clauses cannot be introduced by an overt
Complementiser such as infinitival for.

Property of Exceptional
Clauses #2

Subjects of Exceptional Clauses behave more like Objects of the preceding
Verb than Subjects of the following Verb. Just like the Object of a typical Verb,
Exceptional Clause Subjects are assigned Objective case.

Property of Exceptional
Clauses #3

Just like the Object of a typical verb, subjects of Exceptional Clauses can
undergo passivization.

315

316

317

317

318

318

Property of Exceptional
Clauses #4

Subjects of Exceptional Clauses can surface as a Reflesive whose antecedent
is the main Clause Subject.

318

Passivization of
Exceptional Clauses

Object-like behavior of
subjects of Exceptional
Clauses

PRO and Exceptional
Clauses

Difference bewetten
persuade-type and
believe-type:
adjuncts

Difference bewetten
persuade-type and
believe-type:
floating emphatic
reflexives

Control Predicates

Passivisation can apply across S, but not across S-bar.

Pleonastic Pronouns can generally only occur in Subject position, and hence
are Subject Expressions.

PRO cannot occur as the Subject of an infinitival S complement.

PRO can occur as the Subject of an infinitival S-bar.

Verbal Adjuncts must be contained within the same S as the V it modifies.

Reflexives generally require a clausemate antecedent (i.e. an antecedent
within the S containing the Reflexive)

Predicates which take an infinitival complement with a PRO subject whose
reference is controlled by some NP in the matrix Clause are known as Control
Predicates.

Small Clauses

Small Clauses have the canonical structure [NP XP], where XP = AP, NP, PP,
etc.

Test for subjecthood for
small clauses :
floating emphatic
reflexives

Test for subjecthood for
small clauses:
[not NP]

Test for subjecthood for
small clauses:
[NP alone]

Floated emphatic reflexives can find an antecedent only in grammatical
function Subject position.

Not-initial NPs occur only in superficial Subject position.

Alone-final NPs can occur only in superficial Subject position.

318

319

321

321

322

322

324

324

325

326

326

Test for subjecthood for
small clauses:
Absolute Prepositional
Phrases

Small Clauses:
no C constituent

Some support for the Small Clause analysis comes from the fact that Subject
Expressions can typically occur immediately after the Preposition in the
absolute construction.

Small Clauses lack a C constituent, and hence cannot have S-bar status.

Small Clauses cannot be introduced by overt Complementizers.

Small Clauses cannot contain an inverted Auxiliary in pre-subject position,
unlike their finite Clause counterparts.

Small Clauses:
no I constituent

Small Clauses seem to have no I constituent.

Small Clauses cannot contain the fininitive particle to, or a Modal.

Subjects of Small Clauses share many of the properties of subjects of
Exceptional Clauses. For example, they are assigned Objective case, they
permit main Clause passivisation and reflexivisation, and they do not permit
PRO subjects.

Clausemate condition

The clausemate condition works well enough for Non-subject Reflexives,
though it raises complex problems in the case of Subject Reflexives.

Distribution of
Exceptional Clauses
and Small Clauses

Exceptional Clauses typically occur only as the Complements of certain
specific types of Verb; and Small Clauses occur mainly as the Complements of
a subset of Verbs and Prepositions.

328

327

327

327

327

327

327

328

331

[Chapter 7]

Rule

Nouns -
proper vs.
common

Common nouns -
Count vs.
Noncount
(=Mass)

Page

338

Proper nouns: generally names of people, places, months, events; NOT usually
premodified by Determiners (*a/*the London)
Common nouns: can be premodified by Determiners (a/the cinema)

Count nouns: can be used with a singular Determiner like ‘a/the’, or a plural
Determiner like ‘two/three’ e.g.) a chair, two chairs
Noncount (=Mass) nouns: Nouns which canNOT be so used e.g.) *a furniture,
*two furnitures
> a singular Mass Noun can be used withOUT a Determiner (We need
furniture.)
a singular Count Noun canNOT be used without a Det (*We need chair.)
> a Mass Noun can be premodified by ‘much’, but not ‘many’ (We don’t have
much furniture.)
a Count Nount can be premodified by ‘many’, but not ‘much’ (We don’t have
many chairs.)

lexicalization
principle

Insert under any terminal category any item from the Lexicon which 1. can have
the relevant categorial status, and 2. is subcategorized as permitting the
relevant type of Complements

343

intransitive verbs

do NOT take an immediately following NP Complement; come, go, wait, fall,
wait

transitive verbs

subcategorize/take an immediately following NP Complement; defy, inivite, hit,
harm, like, kill, help, await

ditransitive verbs

take two NP complements; give, hand, show, send, promise

Prepositional Verb
vs. Phrasal Verb

Prepositional verb: run up - ‘up’ goes with the following NP ‘the hill’ to form a PP
‘up the hill’ > PP ‘up the hill’ can be preposed
Phrasal verb: ring up - ‘up’ goes with the preceding verb ‘ring’ to form a phrasal
verb ‘ring up’ > ‘up his sister’ canNOT be preposed

CPT PPs vs. AJT
PPs #1 - ordering

CPT PPs vs. AJT
PPs #2 -
obligatory

CPT PPs vs. AJT
PPs #3 -
restrictions

Complements occur closer to their heads than Adjuncts

Complements may be obligatory whereas Adjuncts are always optional

Items impose restrictions on the choice of Complements (but not the choice of
Adjuncts)

344

344

345

348

CPT PPs vs. AJT
PPs #4 -
subcategorization

Items should be categorized only with respect to the range of Complements
they permit, not with respect to the optional Adjuncts which can accompany
them.

Periphery
principle

Head First
Principle

Strict Adjacency
Principle

The head term of a Phrase appears at the periphery of X-bar.
> The Head must be the leftmost or rightmost immediate constituent of X-bar.

350

In English-type languages, Heads precede Complements

An NP Complement of a V must be strictly adjacent to V.
> a general tendency to prevent anything from intervening between a Verb and
the following NP
> when a Verb subcategorizes both an NP and a PP Complement, the NP
Complement must come immediately after the Verb, and hence must precede

the PP Complement.
> when a Verb subcategorizes both an NP and an S-bar Complement, the NP
Complement must precede the S-bar Complement

Clause-last
Principle

An S-bar Complement must occur at the rightmost periphery (=righthand end)
of its containing X-bar in English.
> S-bar Complements follow not only NP Complements, but also PP
Complements

communicative
functions of
clauses

Complement Clauses can be declarative, imperative/subjunctive, interrogative,
or exclamative.
> the range of clausal Complements which a given item permits is determined
in large measure by its semantic properties

Lexical
Redundancy Rule

Mandative Predicates take Subjunctive Complements (in formal registers).
Interrogative and Dubitative Predicates take interrogative Complements.
Desiderative and Emotive Predicates take interrogative Complements.
Cognitive and ASsertive Predicates take declarative(=indicative) Complements.

mandative -
subjuctive

Only Mandative Predicates (insist, demand, request, propose, recommend,
order, prefer, etc.) take subjunctive Complements

interrogative and
dubitative -
interrogative

desiderative and
emotive - infinitive
introduced by ‘for’

cognitive,
assertive -
indicative

interrogative
Complements
특징/공통점

Interrogative Complements occur with intrinsically Interrogative and Dubitative
Predicates (ask, inquire, wonder, doubt, debate, etc.)

Infinitive Complements introduced by ‘for’ typically occur after Desiderative and
Emotive Predicates (prefer, aim, die, astound, etc.)

Cognitive Verbs (know, feel, think, realize, imagine) and Assertive Verbs (say,
assert, declare, announce) generally take indicative Complements

Verbs which select interrogative Complements always take an S-bar
Complements (which may be either finite and have an overt subject, or be
infinitival and have a covert(=empty PRO) subject)
> there are no interrogative Exceptional Clauses or Small Clauses

finite interrogative Clauses must have overt Subjects whereas infinitival
interrogative Clauses must have covert(=PRO) Subjects

noninterrogative
infinitive
Complements
특징/공통점

1. Desiderative and Emotive Predicates tae an infinitival S-bar Complement
introduced by ‘for’
2. When the Clause has an overt Subject, it requires an overt Complementizer;
when it has a cover Subject (=PRO), it requires a covert (=empty=e)
Complementizer
3. semantic properties of the matrix Predicate (e.g. attempt, dare)

Exceptional
Clause
Complements
특징/공통점

Small Clause
complements
특징/공통점

1. Exceptional Clause Complements typically occur immediately following a
subset of transitive Verbs, particularly Cognitive and Assertive Verbs (know,
believe, imagine, declare, report, etc)
2. cannot have a covert (=PRO) Subject

1. occur only immediately following a subset of transitive Verbs
2. not allow a PRO subject
> Adjectival/Prepositional/Nominal SCs, Verbal SCs (subdivided into infinitival,
gerundive, participal SCs)

- Verbs like ‘have’ take the full range of SCs
- ‘imagine’ doesn’t allow an NC, or an infinitival VC Complement
- ‘let’ permits only a PC or an infinitival VC Complement

352

353

355

354

356

357

358

359

Prepositions such as ‘with(out)’ might permit Small Clause complements

364

CP vs. TP 구분
팁!

both Exceptional Clauses and Small Clauses must immediately follow a
transitive Verb > the clausal Complement of ‘persuade’ canNOT be an S/SC,
but rather must be an S-bar

Lexical Uniformity
Principle

e.g.) in the unmarked case, untensed Complements occupy the same structural
positions as the corresponding tensed Complements
> If a verb takes a clausal complement as a lexical property, then in the
unmarked case, it sould take either type of clausal complement (tensed
clauses, infinitival clauses)

Adjectives and Nouns ([+N] categories) do NOT take NP complements, or S/SC
complements > only types of CPTs they permit are S-bar or prepositional
complements

Subcategorization
Principle

Any lexical item of category X will be subcategorized with respect to the range
of idiosyncratic Complements (=sister constituents) which it permits within the
(minimal) X-bar containing it
> an unordered list of the sets of categories which X permits as its CPTs

Projection
Principle

Syntactic representations (=syntactic structures) must be projected from the
Lexicon, in that they observe the subcategorization properties of lexical items

Subcategorization
restrictions

restrictions on the range of categories which a given item permits/requires as its
Complements
e.g.) ‘devour’ takes an obligatory NP Complement
‘rely’ takes an obligatory PP Complement headed by ‘on’

Selection
restrictions

semantic/pragmatic restrictions on the choice of expressions within a given
category which can occupy a given sentence-position

the verb ‘convince’ subcategorizes an NP Complement, but selects a
RATIONAL Complement

Items (e.g. Verbs) do NOT subcategorize their Subjects, they do nonetheless
select (=impose selection restrictions on) their choice of Subject

Argument

subsumes Subject and Complement
> Selection restrictions hold between a given item (Predicate) and its
Arguments; items select (=impose restrictions on) their Arguments (NOT its
Adjuncts)

(91a) John persuaded Mary [to tell the truth].
> ‘Mary’ is an Argument of ‘persuaded’ > selection restrictions hold between
‘persuaded’ and ‘Mary’
(91b) John considers [Mary to dislike him].
> ‘Mary’ is NOT an Argument of ‘considers’ > none holding between ‘considers’
and ‘Mary’

[V NP PP] -
phrasal vs.
clausal CPT

1. NP and PP are CPTs of V > V will impose selection restrictions on NP
2. NP and PP are the Subject and Predicate of a Small Clause CPT of V (V SC[
NP PP]) > NO selection restrictionns holding between V and NP

‘frighten’ allows Abstract Subjects and Human Objects;
‘murder’ requires that both its first Argument (=its Subject) and its second
Argument (=its Object) be HUMAN

Each Argument (Subject or Complement) of a Predicate bears a particular
thematic role(=theta-role) to its Predicate

Thematic
Functions

- Theme (=Patient): entity undergoing the effect of some action
- Agent (=Actor): instigator of some action
- Experiencer: entity experiencing some psychological state
- Benefactive: entity benefitting from some action
- Instrument: means by which something comes about
- Locative: place in which sth is situated or takes place

360

361

365

369

369

370

371

372

373

- Goal: entity towards which sth moves
- Source: entity from which sth moves

(98) John gave Mary the book.
> ‘John’ bears the theta-role ‘Agent’ to the verbal Predicate ‘gave’.
‘Mary’ bears the role ‘Goal’, and ‘the book’ bears the role ‘Theme’.

ergative
structures

an expression which normally functions as the Object of a given transitive Verb
is used intransitively as the Subject of the Verb

Distribution of
adverbial/prepositi
onal phrases
thematically
determined

Passive Thematic
Hierarchy
Condition

Thematic
Hierarchy

Reflexive
Thematic
Hierarchy
Condition

lexical entries

Selection restrictions seem to correlate with thematic structure, in the sense
that expressions which bear the same thematic relation to some item will be
subject to the same selection restrictions

1. Adverbs like ‘deliberately’ can co-occur only with Agent phrases
2. Adverb ‘personally’ can only co-occur with Experiencer arguments
3. Only Verbs with ‘Agent’ subjects permit by-phrase nominal counterparts

375

Only constituents with the same Thematic Function can be conjoined

376

The passive by-phrase must be higher on the Thematic Hierarchy than the
superficial Subject

Agent > Locative/Source/Goal > Theme

A Reflexive may NOT be higher on the Thematic Hierarchy than its antecedent

1. categorial information 2. subcategorization information
(=c-selection/categorial selection) 3. selectional information 4. thematic
information (=s-selection/semantic selection)

external vs.
internal
arguments

Arguments that are internal to VP are complements;
Arguments that are external to VP are Subjects;
> (116b) John will give Mary the book. - ‘John’ is the external Argument of the
verbal Predicate ‘give’, ‘Mary’ is the internal Argument of ‘give’

a Verb assigns a theta-role to its Internal Arguments,
It is NOT the Verb but rather te Whole Verb Phrase which assigns a theta-role
to its External Argument (=Subject)

‘seem’ takes a nonthematic Subject (=a subject to which it assigns no
theta-role), Subject is NOT an argument of ‘seem’ > whereas some Predicates
(e.g. try) theta-mark their subjects, others (e.g. seem) do NOT
- Subject of ‘try’ has to be Rational (=mind-possessing), hence capable of
having intentions

Theta Criterion

Each Argument bears one and only one theta-role, and each theta-role is
assigned to one and only one Argument

Projection
Principle
(generalized)

Syntactic representations must be projected from the Lexicon, in that they
observe the lexical properties of the items they contain

380

386

388

391

Max found Bill an amusing companion. - ambiguous
1.On one interpretation, ‘Max found an amusing companion for Bill.’ - the verb
‘find’ is ditransitive, Bill refers to the beneficiary and is functioning as indirect
object, and an amusing companion is the direct object.

wks
pg.7

2. On the other interpretation, ‘Max found Bill to be an amusing companion.’
-‘find’ is a complex transitive verb, ‘Bill’ is a direct object, and ‘an amusing
companion’ is an object-predicative. There are only two participants, Max and
Bill.

402

403

406

406

407

408

409

410

411

412

[Chapter 8]

Affix Movement

Tense/Agreement affixes which would normally be suffixed to the Modal in I
(e.g. the third person singular suffix -s) end up suffixed to the leftmost V of VP.

V movement

The head V of VP moves into the empty I position by a rule of V Movement, and
thereby comes to acquire the Tense/Agreement properties associated with I, so
becoming an inflected verb-form.

Support for V
movement:
Negation facts

We posit that have and be originate within VP, but that the leftmost occurrence
of have/be gets moved out of VP into I by V Movement, if I is finite and empty.
After application of V Mov, ‘have’ and ‘be’ will be positioned in I, and so precede
the negative particle ‘not’ (which is positioned after I and before VP).

Support for V
movement: Adverb
distribution

The only internal positions which an S-Adverbial like ‘probably’ can occupy are
between NP and I, or between I and VP - but not any position internally within
VP.

V Movement is only possible into an empty finite I.

Support for V
movement: Have
contraction

After a Pronoun ending in a vowel or a diphthong, unstressed have can lose its
vowel and be contracted down to the nonvocalic (i.e. vowel-less) form /v/, which
is written as ‘ve in the spelling.

The presence of the elliptical ‘gap’ ø between you and have blocks the
application of vocalic Have contraction. We might propose that it is a general
condition on vocalic contraction that have must immediately follow a Pronoun
terminating in a vowel or dipthong, and that there should be no ‘gap’ between
them.

In a finite Clause containing an I filled by a Modal, the Tense/Agreement
inflections associated with I are realized on the Modal in I. But in a finite Clause
containing an empty I, the leftmost V of VP moves out of VP and into I, and
there comes to acquire the relevant Tense/Agreemnt inflections associated with
I.

Two general points
of V Movement

1. V Movement is blocked from applying if I is filled - e.g. if it contains a Modal.
2. V Movement is obligatory.

Two key
assumptions of I
Movment

Arguments
supporting I
movement: gap
argument

Arguments
supporting I
movement:
subcategorization
facts

Arguments
supporting I
movement:
indirect speech
counterparts

Arguments
supporting I
movement:

1. Inverted Modals like will originate in I
2. and, they end up in C.

When the rule of I Movement applies to move will into C, a ‘gap’ is left behind in
the original I position: but if we assume a convention that such gaps cannot be
refilled.

Inverted Modals which are positioned in C at S-structure originate in I.

413

Direct and indirect questions are similar in that in both cases the Modal can
oriignates in I within S, but that they differ in that only in direct questions is I
preposed to the immediate left of the oversall S into C, by operation of the rule
of I Movement.

Modals originate in post-subject position, and get moved into pre-subject
position by a rule of ‘inversion’, thereby leaving a ‘gap’ in their original
post-subject position which blocks Have contraction.

414

415

vocalic have
contraction

Auxiliary Inversion

I-to-C Movement analysis correctly predicts that ‘inversion’ will be blocked by
the presence of an overt Complementiser.

Inversion can only take place in Clauses not introduced by an overt
Complementiser.

Non-modal Verbs originate within VP and only become inflected for Tense and
Agreement by virtue of being moved out of their position in VP into I by the rule
of V movement, then it seems clear that have and be must move first from VP
into I by V Movement, and then subsequently from I into C by I Movement.

Causative have

I movement applies only to [+AUX] elements contained in I: this would imply
that the ‘causative’ use of have is [-AUX].

auxiliary have vs
nonauxiliary have

Auxiliary have can be copied in tags, and can be directly negated without do.
By contrast, nonauxiliary have requires do-tags and do-negatives.

D-structure vs
s-structure

NP movement

Evidence for NP
movement:
subcategorization

Evidence for NP
movement: gap
argument

There are two different levels of syntactic structure in grammars:
(i) the level of D-structure which serves as input to the movement rules
(ii) the level of S-structure which serves as the output of the movement rules

NP movement here is the transformational counterpart of the traditional
grammarian’s rule of ‘passivization’ by which the Object of a sentence is
‘passivized’ and thereby moves into Subject position.

The preverbal Subject NP in passive sentence originates at D-structure in the
postverbal Object NP position.

Movement of the Object would leave behind a ‘gap’ in Object position which
cannot be refilled by another lexical NP.

Evidence for NP
movement: Idiom
chunks

Idiom chunks are restricted to occurring immediately after specific Verbs at
D-structure (though of course they can subsequently be moved out of their
underlying position by movement rules like NP movement).

415

415

417

418

418

419

421

421

422

424

Active Objects (i.e. Objects of active sentences) play the same thematic role as
the corresponding passive Subjects.

424

Theta-roles are preserved under movement.

The passive Subjects originate as underlying (postverbal) Objects, and is only
subsequently moved into preverbal, or Subject position by application of Np
movement.

Evidence for NP
movement:
thematic relations

Evidence for NP
movement:
selectional
restrictions

NP movement

NP movement can apply across S-boundaries.

The Subjecct NP of a Small Clause Complement can undergo passivisation via
NP movement.

Passivization can apply to the Subject of an Exception Clause or Small CLause,
it cannot apply to the subject of an Ordinary Clause.

Passivization cannot apply ‘across’ an S-bar boundary.

Only an NP immediately adjacent to a Verb can passivize.

Prepositional

The passive Subjects seems to have been moved out of its underlying position

427

425

426

426

426

427

427

passives

as a Prepsotional Object, in apparent violation of the condition that an NP can
be passivized if adjacent to a Verb.

Restrictions on
passivization of
Prepositional
Objects

Although Prepositional Verbs allow V and P to be separated by other material in
their active form, they do not do so in their passive form.

428

Although in their active form Prepositional Verbs permit the Preposition to be
modifed by a preceding Specifier such as 'right' or 'straight', this type of
premodification is not permitted in the passive.

On the assumption that REANALYSIS is only permitted were V and P are
immediately adjacent, and that prepositional passives are only possible where
REANALYSIS has applied, then we can attribute the ungrammaticality of the (b)
examples to the fact that the presence of intervening material between V and P
blocks RENALAYSIS, and hence blocks passivization.

428

429

Only an NP which is part of a subcategorized PP can undergo passivization:
only the head P of a Complement PP can undergo REANALYSIS, not the head
P of an Adjunct PP.

430

Only Complements of a V can undergo REANALYSIS.

Prepositional passives are only possible where the Verb and the Preposition
together form what he calls a semantic unit.

The whole expression can be treated as some kind of Complex Verb, and that
the NP immediately adjacent to this Verb can then passivise just like any other
postverbal Complement NP. → [take advantage of] [NP someone].

Reanalysis must apply before any transformation.

Passivization is precluded from applying to Adjunct NPs.

un- is a prefix which can be attached to Adjectives, but not generally to Verbs.
Thus, 'unimpressed' must be adjectival.

Prenominal modifier is a typical adjective position.

The passive particle 'sunken' seems restricted to adjectival use, since in purely
verbal passives, we find the alternative form 'sunk'.

430

431

432

433

433

433

433

The passive particle 'depraved' has been coordinated with the Adjective 'uncouth'. 433

Double passive
structures of
prepositional
passives

Passivization of
Adjuncts

The passive particle is premodified by the kind of expression 'very' which can be
used to premodify an Adjective, but not a Verb.

The particle 'annoyed' occurs as the Complement of a copula Verb in a position
which we find Adjectival Phrases, but not 'verbal' passive phrases.

Adjectival passives

Verbal passives involve application of NP movement, whereas adjectival
passives involve no application of any movement rule.

Adjectival passive participles never trigger NP movement.

NP movement in
Raising stuctures

NP originates not as the main Clause Subject, but rather as the subordinate
Clause Subject, whence it is subsequently ‘raised’ to become the main Clause
Subject.

Infinitive Complements of ‘seem’ cannot be introduced by an overt
Complementizer.

433

433

434

435

436

The ‘Subject Raising’ analysis presupposes that John originates as the Subject

436

of the bracketed embedded S Complement, and is subsequently ‘raised’ by
application of NP movement to become the superficial Subject of the main
Clause.

Evidence for raising
analysis:
interpretation of
reflexives

A Reflesive can be construed with a compatible sometime clausemate NP (i.e.
with an NP which is contained in the same S as the Reflexive at some stage of
derivation, and which is compatible with it in Person, Number, Gender, etc.)

A Predicate Nominal agrees in number with the Subject of its own Clause.

Control Predicate

Predicates which take an infinitival Complement with a PRO subject controlled
by some NP in the containing Clause are referred to as Control Predicates.

PRO can occur only as the Subject of an S-bar Complement, not as the Subject
of an S Complement.

Infinitival Complement of seem has the status of S.

Pleonastic there there cannot serve as the controller of PRO.

Pleonastic there can only occur as the Subject of a class of ‘existential’
Predicates such as exist, be, occur, arise, take place, etc.,

Arguments for
raising analysis of
‘seem’ structures:
pleonastic
pronouns

Passivization of
raising and control
predicates

‘Raising’ Predicates preserve truth-functional equivalence under passivization,
whereas ‘control’ predicates do not preserve turh-functional equivalence under
passivization.

‘Control’ Predicates assign a theta-role to and hence impose selection
restrictions on their superficial Subjects, and selectionally constraints the choice
of Subject.

Ergative

An ergative Clause is an intransitive Clause which has a transitive counterpart
in which the transitive Object corresponds to the ergative Subject.

NP movement in
ergative and middle
structures

The superficial Subject in ergative structures originates as the underlying
Object of a transitive structure with an empty NP Subject, and that the
underlying Object is moved into superficial Subject position by NP movement.

Extraposition

Extraposed constituents are moved to the end of S rather than S-bar because
extraposition is possible within an ‘Exceptional Clause.’

A constituent extraposed from an Object NP contained within a VP is attached
to the containing VP, whereas a constituent extraposed from a subject NP is
attached to the containing S.

An extraposed PP or S-bar is adjoined to the first major (i.e. phrasal or calusal,
XP or S) constituent containing the NP out of which is extraposed.

If Extraposition applies to move material both out of a Subject NP and out of an
Object NP in the same S, then the Object-extraposed phrase will precede the
Subject-extraposed phrase.

Extraposition may also apply in a more strictly ‘local’ fashion, and simply adjoin
the extraposed constituent to the righthand end of the Phrase containing it.

The assumption that an extraposed PP can be adjoined to its containing NP
opens up the possibility that extraposition of a PP out of a containing NP to be
adjoined to a VP or S may apply in two steps, with adjunction first to the
containing NP, and then to the VP or S containing the NP out of which the
extraposed Phrase is being moved.

436

438

439

439

440

440

442

443

446

446

449

451

451

453

454

455

[Chapter 9]

