ㆅ

ㅎ

σ

옹

σ

ㅎ

F

으

∅

S

「

S

P

∅

?

θ

P

<

∅

.

용

λ

P

위

x

융

동

f

종
"

ε

=

「

s

우

「

ㅎ ∴

8

∅

ㄶ

흥

∞σ

ε

8

∅

춤

.

읔

8

∅

a

J

ㆁ

S

용
음
송

¤

우

∞

θ

읔

∅

'

ㆆ

§

옳

a

역

후

'

용
동

⇐

흥
용

읔

∅

읗

α

흥

8

용

후

⑥

8

ㆁ

ε

홍

합
욕

∞

①

,

①

파

흐

:

「

←

∞

ㅇ

,
용
용
용
우
∅

ㅇ

요

'

δ

π

t

옵

①

⑧
×

9

δ

θ
흥

⑧

→

=

용

∞

∅

5

δ

.

후

후

읔

후

융
용
품
s
용
율
용
송
홍
용

역

흥

∞

{

우

θ

∞

용

흡

ㅇ

∅

읔

↑

5

중

율
호

우

'

8

용
유

합

총
우

①

'

8

:

⑤

∵

움

O

∅

「

ㅇ i

식

∅

흥

\

Ʃ

s

잉

초

8

:

∅

흄

홍
요

¤

「

⑨

읔

δ

{

↑

등 σ

9

홍

θ

Ʃ
8

용

σ

S

⑧

,

용
용

융

육
후

ㆀ

s

"

우

흥

홍

∅

θ

읔

∅

t

①

≠

∅

8

λ

우

흉

θ

읔

∅

ㆁ

Δ

'

Δ

「

용

=

웅

9

∅

ㅇ

ㅎ

우

율σ
수
등

혹
우

δ

&

π

δ

∅

후

9

∅

응

∞

∞

흥

'

"

ㅇ

프
용

후

역

ㅎ

윷

ㅎ

'

∞

σ

륩
우

은

a

혼

욕

등

호

}

후

S

용
욕

∞
용
홍

후

옷
흉

ㅇ

∅

우

∞

용
α

:

을
후

흠

드

Y

'

t

σ

"

S

후

후

응

용
합
화
용
합
합
음
용

융

.

=

용

S

용

∞

「

'

욕

λ

혹

혹

호
동
합
송
율

용

등

8

‰

흥

강

,

딩

움

B

용

:

율
은
용

용
호

공

a

ㆀ

{

송

∅

을

휵

∞

홈

프

a

℃

융

¤

-

송

홍

§

.

{

목

용
합
합
합
협
율
합
용
용
율
흠
용
음
성

:
…

δ 융

용

δ

⑧

"

마
행

합
협
의

⑥

∅⑤⑥

임

중

'

횃

2

2 . 1central

us hateral

tongue body retraction

r - liprounding

2 . 4 Africates

OStop 의 특징 + ricative 의 특징 = Affricate

Tnefriction occurs

during the

release phase of the closure .

constriction of complete closure t release phase with friction

Alveolar Approximant [ f ] : Air escapes along a central groove .
Alveolar Approximant [l ) sidesofthetongue+ alveolarridge 2 . 5 Aspiration

lateral

2 . 2 Taps and Trills

) Blade of

of complete

the tongue comes into a momentary constiction 2 . 6 Nasal stops → complete closure of place of oral sounds
closure with alveolar idge : en ) → tapor flap G velum in the raised position : the air fromthelungs is

+ But Nasal cavity 가 열리는 것 !

G pit

rs spit tmaspirated

p) → Ephy

Lstronger puff of air : Aspiration

instead of [t ] or [d 3

ex ) Betty , wilty ,

rider , heady

2) Holding one articulator next
of complete closure , but without the same muscular pressure as
one finds in stops .

to the other in a constriction

Ir) → alveolar trill

cleare

2 . 3 secondary articulation
_
O lateral approximant cl ] is alveolar . But it may also be
produced with an additional articulation [ back of the tongue lvelum]
: Alveolar articulation - primary articulation
: velar articulation -secondary articulation
rlateral isvelarized[ te ] = dark l -> body 1 back of

I velarization

retracted ond lor

tongue is
lowered

o secondyarticulation ' palatal[ front tongue t hard palare]
L> palatalization [ e; ] = clearl

secaping

only

bloces flow of air out

through the mouth (= oral Cavity )
through nasal
cavity .

F oralsounds )

G velum lowered : the air is escaping through the nasal

-

- -

acone

( = nasal stops )

cavity
exl labio - dentalhasalstops (

x 쳉air both
y 3!was -cving
only nasal
" 에 …

- occurbeforelabio -dentalsound

I nasalized

nasal

is

Assimilation ) pamphiet
Nasal is assimilated to the following
그러면 왜 일어나 F ? Ease of articu lation

fricative

L> this saves the

speaker

the articulatory effort

of moving froon

Bilabial

to labio -dental articulation .

리

- [대 ,

Tenth : ocur before dental sound

3)

Incredible : occar before velar sound
I

complete closure between

en )

' tongue back - velum

'

t escape of air

through nasal cavity ,

,

횃

3

3 . 1 The primary Cardinal vowels ( 말할때 1

2 . 3 순서로 언급한다 )

,

Available space

for vowel articalation : vowel space
② which body of
the tongue lies towards

the frontof the vowel

③ lip position :

lipsare rounded ) romnded vowel

libsarern 'trounded )unrounded wowel

space

①

- neight of the
body of tongue
during articulation

closelopen

3 . 2 RPand GAshort vowels

N schwa vowel [ 23

Never ocurin stressedsyllable

EX) about , elephant , Belinda

- [ a )

This vowel is shorter than the short vowels and is produced
without lip rounding. It is the first vowel sound which occurs in
most speakers' pronunciation of the word, 'avoid'.

e

[23 schwa

,

횃

5

65 . 2 contrast us predictability

: phoneme

the distribution of
unaspirated and aspirated
stops is mutually
exclusive: where you get
one kind of stop, you
never get the other. This
is called complementary
distribution.

it appears that voiceless stops are aspirated when they are at the beginning
of a stressed syllable, as in pool and appear, but unaspirated when preceded by
a voiceless alveolar fricative, as in spurt.

the distribution of aspirated and unaspirated voiceless stops in Korean is
overlapping: there is at least one place (at the beginning of words) in which
either type of sound may occur. This kind of distribution is referred to as
parallel distribution, where ‘parallel means ‘overlapping to some degree’.

when the Korean speaker says [p ul], it does not mean the same thing as
[pul]. The difference between the two sounds is said to be semantically
contrastive. Pairs of words which differ with respect to only one sound are
called minimal pairs.

h

The distinction
between aspirated and
unaspirated voiceless
stops is phonemic in
Korean but allophonic
in English.

,

In these Korean data,
aspirated and unaspirated
voiceless stops may occur
in the same place (at the
beginning of a word).

The range of places within a word which a given sound may occur in is called
its distribution.

Aspirated and unaspirated stop in English : while they are phonetically distinct,
they are phonologically equivalent. They belong to the same phoneme.

The relationship between phonemes and their associated phonetic segments is
one of realization, so that the phoneme /p/, for instance, is realized as [p]
after a voiceless alveolar fricative, and as [p ] elsewhere.

h

Lack of aspiration or with aspiration is predictable in English, it has a
generalization.

Realizations of a phoneme which are entirely predictable from context are
called its allophones.

횃

5

 /l/ realization in Korean : /l/ is realized as [r] between vowels.

the distribution of the allophones is to say that ‘clear l’ occurs immediately
before vowels, whereas ‘dark l occurs immediately after vowels.

/1/ realization in English
/\/ is realized as [t] immediately after a vowel.

voiced phoneme has a voiceless realization when it follows voiceless consonants:
the realization is assimilating to the preceding segment

voiceless

voiced

The voiced and voiceless alveolar approximants are in complementary
distribution. The voiceless one appears only after voiceless consonants, and the
voiced one appears elsewhere.

voiced alveolar approximant phoneme which is realized as a voiceless allophone
: elsewhere로 나온걸 phoneme으로 택하기!!
—> It is phonetically natural that approximants are normally voiced.

i

Z

e

ε

∂

&

Λ

U
v

ㅇ

,

a

the two segment types are in complementary distribution: the advanced, palatal
articulations occur before high front vowels, and the velar ones occur elsewhere.

This makes phonetic sense: high front vowels are palatal articulations (the
articulators are the front of the tongue and the hard palate), so we can say
that the velar phoneme is assimilating to the following vowel when it is a high
front vowel.

,

횃

G

O English consonant

phonemes

Accent : concern solely phonetic
Dialect : Differences

in

vocab t syntax

and phonological variation

parallel
distribution

= overlapping
distribution

= contrastive

[mJ and ens 1 enDand ey . ⑧ phonemic distinction between

1mlin 1g )

G Tne phonological

fom of morphemes

suffix

r

cats : cat croot morphemest seplural morphemes

>morphologically complex

cat

mental

representation

phonetic

/ Kaet /

sequence

[ khzet 3

when the prefix isadded to the

root

,

the place of articulation of

the nasal becomes

identical

to

that of the first consonant

in the

root .

= Assimilation : one segment
becomes similar

to another

when the two are adjacent .

One phonological fom per morpneme .
shat phonological
phonetic

forms .

allernants

foom maycorrespond to a variety of different

(In 1 - → [ ym ]

, [Iy ]

,In3 ,

[ Iy ] a predictable

④ Tnecontrast

between 1ml and I ny is said

to be

neutralized before bilabial

consonant .

Neutralization ) suspension of phonemic

contrasts in one or more

specificable contexts .

,

횃

6

G English vowel
1 i 1 ( eia ]: beforevelarized lateral (darke) )ig

phonemes
Word finally and before any
Consonants other than dark l

[ i . □

allopnones
of

Phonetic motivation : Our analysis is phonetically motivated in the
sense that we can provide an articulatory reason for the /i:/ -> [i:  ]
∂

Vowel length is allophonic. = do not make any contrast in meanings
(( phonemic = do make contrast / ex : in Limbu, [sapma] means to
write, but [sa:pma] means to flatter.

Distinctive feature vs Nondistinctive feature

1) Distinctive feature : 음소를 구별하는 변별자질 ( phoneme )/ 의미에 기여를 한다
= phonemic / distinctive / phonological feature
Non redundant feature

2) Non distinctive feature : allophone을 구별하는 자질
( allophone ) / 의미에 기여하지 않음. = redundant
예 : nasality of vowels >> /i/가 nasal 이던 oral 이던 같은 음소이기에 비음성은 분별
자질이 아닌것! / length of vowels

,

But ! ! 이러 말고 = Elosed ≈x = eess

sonorant

횃

7

alliteration

6

α

Gconstituencyin sellablestructure onset

thyme

onset isarealunit :증거 ]spoonerism
Ex) You have missed my history lecture . D must have 17 one or a

nucleus

coda

nucieus .

consonant

IYou bave hissed my mistery lecture

contain only I syllable = monosyllabic
contain more than I sullable = poly sullabic

L bisullabic ,

다른건 없어도 V 2) X consonant
→ Vowe | 말

= open

있어도 야"

Exleye : (2z 1

그럼 onset은 다 있어야 할까 ? ⇒ "

No

" 항 Empty onset 이

trisyllabic

tX )

it

6

O

X

R

N

호

C

↓

Branching onsets : onsets that contain
twosegments

Ex) clip

6

O

B

Branching Loda도 T

K

I

N

C

림

long vowels : twoskeletal slots

EX)

bee

6

blly

6

Affricate : complex

ㅇ

심

ㅱ

X

i

ㆁ

심

ㅱ

segment that
benavesasa

single unit .

X

∂

X

Z

nucleas t

longvowels = leus t diphthong

,

GThesonorityhierarchy, maximalonset I sullable weight

sonority scale

The most sonorous element

in a

sonorous
t rowel - like syllablewillbelocatedwitnin

the nudeus .

furtheraway

nucceus

sonorityscolle violation

) [ sat consonanton5etcluster

EX ) sprint

Maximal onset

ex) appraise12 e도| 에서 1P 1 의 위치는 어디 ??

The most

' basic '

sullablestructure : (Vsullablestrulture .

( single onset
onset consonants are more

consonant + a Vowel )

basic than coda onsonants

Evidence :

. cU - type syllablesappear

s eg
aphasia patients- firsttospear( usyllable

in child '

first

. coda consonnts are more
ex the realization of Ill has become vocalized Iw ] in coda position but
not inonsets .

likely to undergo loss of aticulation

This kind of weakening lead to complete elisionex)car

,

~

is runbring

횃

ㅋ

Osyllable weight

lightsullable - No branching

Heavysullable -

branching

monosullabic words

IE & n w + 7 a

Monosyllabic words may not end in one of the short vowels
: ( ____________________) since a nucleus containing one of the
those vowels, with no coda consonant, is light, and if a
monosyllabic word is to be stressed, there is not syllable to be
stressed.

O Languaye - specific
• There are limited number of branches.
• Only one sort of English onset exceeds binary (two-way)

phonotactics

branching. Ex) /s/ + consonant + /j,w,r/ onsets

     Spew, square, scream
•

θ

Z √ 3

/t/, /d/ and /   / may not be followed by /l/ and none of the
voiced fricatives (_____________) may occur in branching onsets.
/h/ does not occur in rhymes in English.
•
/r/ does not occur in rhymes. Ex) farm [ fa:m ] / car [ ka: ]
•
—>> Accents which lack /r/ in rhymes are referred to as non-rhotic
•

insertion of vowels : epenthesis

osullabic consonants & phonotactics

•

Consonants that can form the nucleus of the syllable : syllabic
consonants

Ex) Syllabic nasals / approximant /r/

G sullable - based

generalizations

Velarized lateral ( =dark l )

Generalization : Dark l occurs when immediately followed by
another consonant or at the end of the word ( = immediately
followed by a word boundary ).
—>> simpler : dark /l/ occurs in the rhyme of the syllable and
[l] in the onset. ( 기출 )

when [nv)

[ v] → [ avy ,
isfolowed by tanto -
sullabic lll .

,

Title
Title
Content
Content

EPP chapter 7

(1) The term ‘ branching ‘

Date

Date

No.

• Onsets may contain two segments : branching onsets
• Codas may contain two segments : branching codas

The distinction between short vowel vs long vowel/ diphthongs

•
1) short vowel : occupy the non-branching nucleus.
2) long vowel / diphthong : occupy the branching nucleus.

Skeletal tier : timing slots

•
1) Diphthongs / long vowels : Attached to a series of timing slots
2) short vowel : connected to single skeletal slot.
3) Long vowel : connected to two skeletal slots

Long vowel vs Diphthong

•
1) long vowel : Constitute a single vowel quality ->> attach to two skeletal
slots.
2) Diphthong : Two different vowel quality.
>> affricates ) complex segments // behave like single segments // they
occupy a single unit of timing // internal structure which resembles two
segments

•
•

Branching within the rhyme : heavy syllables
No branching within the rhyme : light syllables

(2) 유일하게 sonority scale principle 을 어기는 /s/ : The most sonorous element in a syllable will be located within the nucleus, and that
the further one gets from the nucleus, the less sonorous are the segments.

[s] + consonant onset clusters in English 예: sprint, spew, square, scream
Only three-way branching onsets in English are those which begin with an [s].

•
•
( = Only one sort of English onset exceeds binary ( two -way ) branching : /s/만 그렇다! 예 : /s/ + consonant + /j/ /w/ or /r/ onsets )

(3) Codas are less salient than onsets : 쉽게 사라진다 ~~maximal onset principle을 지지 // CV syllable structure is more basic than VC
syllable sequence.

(4) stress 에 관한 generalization
•
•

Any stressed syllable in English is likely to be a heavy syllable
Monosyllabic words may not end in one of the short vowel phonemes since a nucleus containing one of those vowels with no coda
consonant, is light, and if a monosyllabic word is to be stressed, there is no choice as to which syllable it will be stressed on.

(5) Velarized and Non-velarized /l/ : 이미 dark /l/과 darker /l/이 2019년에 나오긴 했지만…
->> velarized /l/ occurs when immediately followed by another consonant, or at the end of a word ( when immediately followed by a
word boundary ).
->> velarized /l/ occurs in the rhyme of the syllable and non-velarized /l/ in the onset. >> 기출 2014.11에서 rhyme을 쓰는게 답이었음.

(6) London English :

⑧

아직 출제 안됨

/Mv

1

1

|

LDv ]

CMvI

allophones of / nv ,

Morphological factors influencing phonological process.

Title
Title
Content
Content

(7) Phonemic split: (6)번에 이어서 ~~

아직 출제 안됨

Date

Date

No.

오잉 ? 이거 처음 단어를 보면 syllable이 maximal onset
principle에 따라서 ro/ler이렇게 잘릴텐데 왜 모음이 아직도
저거지??

The two vowels were in complementary distribution but have come to occur in overlapping, parallel distribution.
Support of this view : minimal pair ( holey vs holy )

>> 해답 : holley라는 단어가 형성될 때 vowel rule이 먼저 적용되고 / 그다음 affixation이 일어난다!

②

②

The vowel rule applies prior to the
affixation of the suffix

그럼 roller도 마찬가지겠다!

③

After affixation, /l/ is initially syllabified into coda position, is
resyllabified into the empty onset in the suffix due to maximal
onset principle.

•

Non-London accents : the reverse ordering of phonological generalizations and resyllabification applies.

(cid:8805)

lil

Li : ]
Elsewhere

Lia)
Followed by
tautosyllbic /l/

Feeling
->> resyllabification [ fil/ ig ] >> [ fi/ ling ]
->> Vowel rule ( 이제 다른 syllable에 있으니까 )

횃

ㅋ

Gsullable structure & Resullabification

Question : roller에서 /ㅣ/이 maximal onset principle에 따라서 onset에
놓이면 vowel 이 저거일 수 없는데 왜??

—>> phonemic split / the two vowels were in complementary
distribution but have come to occur in overlapping and parallel
distribution.

• one way : the changing of vowels occur prior to the affixation of

suffix.

•

resyllabification : While the /l/ is initially syllabified into the
coda position, it is resyllabified after affixation, and according
to the maximal onset principle, into the empty onset in the
suffix.

*ambisyllabic이랑 다른
개념이니까 헷갈리지 않기

,

횃

8

@ Word stress assignment and morphological structure

Inflectional suffixes are not stressed, and have no effect on word
stress in English words
Ex) Plural suffix, past tense suffix, progressive suffix, present
tense suffix

Stress-neutral suffix : 강세가 변함이 없음
• adverbial suffix -ly / remaining trochaic pattern for both

bisyllabic and polysyllabic words

• -er( comparative and noun forming ) -est, -ish, -ful, -less, -y
when added to monosyllabic roots ( trochaic stress pattern )

• -ess, -hood, ism, ist, ness, ship ( noun forming suffixes )
• -able

Stress-shifting suffix : 강세의 변화가 있음
• -ee, -eer, -ese ( stress-bearing )
• -ette ( stress-bearing )
• -ity, -ic, -ous,

,

