TITLE  분류 1 : Place/ manner of articulation

주의 사항 :
• 발음기호 꼭 적어보기, stress 표시 꼭 하기
• distinctive feature 작성 시 반드시 [    ] 표시!
( 이미 제시된 경우엔 발음기호만 쓰기 )
• 지문 전체 다 읽어보기! 힌트가 반드시 있을것임 (note주의! )
• morpheme/ word/ syllable boundary 인지 구분
• place /manner/ stres를 바탕으로 condition이 나눠질 경

우 반드시 condition을 유의미하게 제시해주기!

< 2015. B. 3 > 원전 AEP / palatal /j/ insertion
In American English of (1b) and (2b), /j/ cannot
follow alveolar consonants when they are obstruent
sounds /t, d s, z/, regardless of stress placement. In
(1b) and (3), when alveolar consonants are
sonorant sounds /n, l/, /j/ also cannot follow them if
it is in stressed syllable but /j/ can follow them if it
is in unstressed syllable.

<2016. A. 5> [-sonorant], labial, dorsal
위치에 따라 / [ au ] 다음에 어떤 자음이 나오는지 ! feature로
제시하게 함
1) 자음관련 ( 얘네도 feature가 될 수 있음 )
- [Labial] (bilabial, labiodental) ­ [Coronal] ­
[Dorsal] (velar) 로 분류
>> [sonorant] 는 있지만 [obstruent] 는 없음

ael

<2019. A. 5>
Tense / Lax
L : Tense 반대
T : phonetic - higher tongue positon, greater duration,
great muscular effort (기출 2019.A.5)
ex) i e u o a+ 어
(Phonological definition : open syllable in stressed
syllable)

기본 개념 :
Phonetic classes
1. Non-continuants vs Continuants
NC ­ Oral Stop, Affricates, Nasals : 구강에서 막힘
C ­ Fric, Liquid, Glides,Vowels : 구강에서 안막힘
2. Obstruents vs Sonorants
O ­ Oral Stop,Affri, Fric : 공기흐름 저해 + 공명도 x
S ­ Nasal, liquids, Glides, Vowels : 저해 x + 공명도
3. Consonantals vs Non-consonantals
C ­ NC 외 모두
NC ­ Glides, Vowels : 어딘가 닿는가
< glide : [-consonantal] [ +vowel] [ -syllabic] >

lax ⇒ schwa 여도 reduced !!

'

'

'

<2017.A. 3 > velar ( reduced vowels )
1. 개념 : A vowel that is unstressed and generally
pronounced as schwa in English in ‘morphologically
related words’
ex) homogenous / homogenize
2. 예외 : It is common to see an [lax i] before palato-
alveolars or velars in reduced sylllables when there is
tautosyllabicity
ex) selfish / metric / topic
cf.topical->/i/가[laxi]가아닌 schwa로발음

xCa]

'

< 2018. B. 1 > glide insertion /j/ and /w/ ( 발음기호O)
Glide insertion can occur between vowels. /j/
insertion occurs between two vowels, the first of
which should be a high front vowel (including a
diphthong). /w/ insertion occurs between two vowels,
the first of which should be a high back vowel
(including a diphthong).

2) 모음관련
- [back] 은 있지만 [front] 는 없음/( 최팀 모고는 안그럼 (cid:18573))
-syllabic nasal/liquid는 nucleus 자리 차지 가능하지만,
[+syllabic]은 안됨 ( allophones까지 고려해야지 가능 )

2. Long / Short
Long: i e u o
Short: long ~ 빼고 전부

< 2019.B.2 > /l/ - dark, darker, vocalization, deletion
In some AE varieties, dark ‘l’ occurs (in onsets)
before front vowels; darker ‘l’ appears (in onsets)
before back vowels. ( 단어는 줬지만 발음 기호는 주지 않음
But! 누구나 쉽게 구할 수 있는 정도 ) In AAVE, the
vocalization of (coda) /l/ as in (2a) occurs (in the
coda position) immediately after a vowel, and the
deletion of (coda) /l/ as in (2b) occurs (in the coda
position) immediately after a vowel, when /l/ is
before labial consonants.

First, a dark ‘l’ appears before front vowels and a
more velarized darker ‘l’ appears before back
vowels. Second, the alveolar lateral becomes a high
back lax vowel immediately after a vowel and it is
deleted before a labial consonant.

3. Heavy / Light
H : short+coda / long / diphthong / long/diph+coda /
L : short + null
cf. Schwa 뒤에 뭐가오든 weightless /stressless

4. Diphthong / affricates
: behaves as a single unit (quality within a single
syllable­<2020. A. 4>

<2021. B. 4>
/ou/ is realized as [o] when /ou/ is followed by /l/ in
the same morpheme boundary. << 이렇게 작성 ??
>> within the same morpheme이 더 안전
Two words are ‘soldier’ and ‘poultry’. /ou/ is realized
as [o] when it is before a lateral consonant /l/
which is in the coda of the morpheme.

TITLE

< 2023. A. 2 > Suffix -en adding

stop

t Frcative

Loquid
+ Glide
+ Nasal

-sonorant

TITLE  분류 2 : Phoneme and allophone

2024 : allomorphs : morpheme’s variant phonetic forms

주의사항 : 두가지 이상의 환경이 complementary이면
elsewhere/두가지 환경이 complementary하면 except
for~라고 제시해주기 (구하라는 환경이 두개 )
예: deletion of /l/ occurs before a labial consonant
in coda position while vocalization of /l/ occurs in
coda position except for the case when /l/ is
followed by a labial consonant ­ 기출2019.B2

Distribution이라는 말이 나오면 overlapping,
complementary 떠올리기!!

< 2005. 21 > Aspirated voiceless stops
• Aspirated voiceless stops occur at the beginning of

a stressed syllable [ Ex: appear, pie ]

• Unaspirated voiceless stops are produced when

preceded by [s] as in spy, spat.

• Aspirated in the word [pie]

>> aspirated /p/가 /p/의 allophone인것도 제시됨 :
It does not make a difference in meaning since these
two phonetically different sounds count as the same
thing in English.
>> phoneme : A mental category

<2015. A. 7 > Glottal stop
>> When vocal cords are held tightly together
>> allophone of /t/

Glottalization
Glottal stop requires /t/ in the syllable-final position
(ex: batman). The word do not allow the replacement
have their /t/ in the onset position (ex: attraction),
as /tr/ is a permissible onset in English. We should
point out, however, that /tr/ is being permissible is
not carried over across words, as the compound
‘court-room’ illustrates.

<2012. 31 > distribution
(1) Overlapping : sound X and sound Y occur in the
same environment
>> meaning difference O : contrastive distribution
>> allophones of different phonemes
(2) Complementary : sound X never appears in any
of the phonetic environment in which a sound Y
occurs.
(3) Two sounds in overlapping distribution does not
involve in meaning difference : free variation

(E) : vowel nasalization ) allophonic free variation

③
mr

Allophones of different
Phoneme

Aep chapter 2의 연습 문제 중 (1)번의 (b)가 이해가 안됩
니다(cid:18587)
If the phonetic difference between two sounds
serves as the basis for distinguishing words, then
the difference is ________.
여기서 빈칸 답이 distinctive,phonemic,non-
predictable이라고 나와 있습니다. 근데 phonetic
difference는 allophone들 사이에서 나타나는거 아닌가
요?(cid:18587) 제가 뭔가 잘못 이해한 것 같아 질문 드립니다!

박경선 교수님 답변 : phonetic이라는 단어 때문에 오해가
생길 수도 있는데, phoneme들도 당연히 음성적인 차이가
있지요. phonetic differences 음성적인 차이, 즉 실제 발
음했을 때의 물리적인 음들의 차이가 native speaker의
머리속에서 의미차이를 가져오는 음들으로 인식하면
different phoneme이 되는 것이고, (different
phoneme에 속하는 다른 phonetic sounds).

phonetic differences가 의미차이를 가져오지 않으면
same phoneme에 속하는 음들, 즉, allophones으로 판
단하는거겠지요.

*allophones of same
phonemes:
complementary 의
unmarked 한 term ->
phonetic 발음적으로 비슷
한 속성을 가짐 (free
variation 생각하지말기)

<2009. 31 >
• Tip, lick, live, mess   Vs *[tI] [lI] [m   ]
>> A lax vowel ( short vowel ) must be followed by at
least one consonant.

ε

• limp, mend, mind , sink
>> When a sequence of a nasal and a stop follows a
vowel, the two consonants are homorganic ( having
the same place of articulation )

• mend, mind
>> When a sequence of nasal and a voiced stop
follows a vowel the two sounds must be alveolar
consonants.

TITLE  분류 3 : syllable

Syllabic structure : (2007.6 ) ( 2014.11 )

Syllable ­ [[onset] [rhyme [nuclues] [coda] ] ]

cf. 관련개념1 : l-velarization (기출 2014.11)
hill/ hilltop / little 은 모두 l-velarization
-> /l/ is velarized when it is part of the syllable rhyme
position (만약에 little 이 없으면 coda position)

cf. 관련개념 2: syllabic nasal (기출 2007. 6) & syllabic
liquid
(1) syllabic nasal
Sudden / button / open / taken / *felon / *carom /
*film *piston/ lincoln/ seldom . [ *charm, chasm,
leaden, *film ]
-> Nasal requires an obstruent as the preceding
segment to become syllable
-> Whenever the consonants preceding the nasal is
following another consonant, the nasal cannot be a
syllabic nasal, but insert schwa.( 이 개념은 등장하지 X )

(2) syllabic liquid
channel / kennel / apple / removal/ pickle/ eagle
*pistol / removal / pickle / eagle
-> Liquid requires any consonant as the preceding
segment to become syllable
-> Whenever the consonants preceding the liquid is
following another consonant, the liquid cannot be a
syllabic , but insert schwa.

< 2013. 29 > Sonority

< 2018. A. 5 > consonant cluster in coda

개념 : degree of opening vocal tract during its
articulation

The peak of the syllable = peak of sonority
Ex) Send : One sonority peak on the vowel = one
syllable

cf : /s/는 sonority rule 예외 : (onset/ coda 둘다 예외
―>> ex : speed, fox - 2013 기출 )
단 ! Syllabic sounds 조심 예 : little ( 두개의 syllable )

• Inflectional suffix : voicing assimilation O
―>> derived, suffixed, polymorphemic word

• Consonant cluster : voicing assimilation X
―>> underived, non-suffixed, monomorphemic

Sonorants + obstruents

< 2023. A . 6 > Sonority principle / phonotactics

The words ‘rviss’ and ‘nkob’can be nonsense
words. Words with simple onset are more English-
like than those with ( onset cluster )complex onset,
>> 지문에 주어짐
and words with complex onset that show
progressively increasing sonority values are more
English-like than those that show progressively
decreasing sonority values.
>> 이건 sonority score를 보고 구해야 함

TITLE  분류 4/5 Phonological rules

주의 사항 :
•

•
•

word-initial / postvocalic / word-final /
onset / coda 주의하기
alveolar stop = n도 포함될 수 있음.
rule을 제시하는건지 phonological
process( dissimilation / assimilation )을 제시
하는건지 잘 보기 )

아직 출제 전
• Nasal and lateral release
•
Affrication
• Glottalization
•
•

Palatalization & labialization of velar stops
Fricative palatalization, dissimilation,
interdental fricative deletion
Affricate assimilation ( 다른 자음과의 차이점 )

•
• Nasal lengthening
Dentalization
•
Labiodentalization
•
•
Progressive nasal assimilation
• Nasal devoicing
•
•
•
•
•

/l/ velarization ( 기출 2014. 11 )
Linking
Restrictions of vowels before velar nasal
/j/ deletion
Resyllabification  ( CC + V sequence )

Devoicing 관련 < 2002. 15 > 룰은 출제 X

Might have thought >>
V >> f로 바뀜 ( stop + fricative 섞여 나올 것 같음 )

Aspiration < 2011. 33 >
1. Nondistinctive feature ( predictable)로서 언급
예 : key, sky

룰은 출제 X

Rule : Devoicing of voiced stop /b.d.g/ in word-
final position.
Ex) dog meal / dog food (g >> k처럼 발음 )
: Voiced stops in word-final position are
devoiced when they are immediately followed by
voiceless stops.

Rule : Stop aspiration ( voiceless stops )
• The voiced set of stops are pronounced
immediately before a stressed vowel.

Ex) pepper, tie, key

• The voiceless set of stops are pronounced with
aspiration at the beginning of stressed syllable.

[ onset이라고 하면 안됨 ]
Ex ) stop <-> pepper

• 그외 ( 지문 따라가기 )
Voiceless non-continuants ~ Ex) chip
Aspiration occurs even with the intervening
consonant Ex ) crip

Assimilation ( place of articulation )

객관식이라 룰 도출 또 나올 수 있음

<2008.17 >
‘Alveolar stops’ are assimilated in the place of
articulation to the following ‘bilabial or velar’
stops across ‘word boundaries’.
ex) green car / met Bob

<2009.34 >
A word-final alveolar stops may assimilated in
the place of articulation to a following word-
initial bilabial or velar stops, resulting in two
identical consonants in some cases. But some
features such as voicing and nasality of
consonant still constant(미출제). When place
articulation results in two identical consonants,
it is called ‘total assimilation’ (출제) --> 객관식이
었기 때문에 직접 룰 도출하는거 나올수도 있음
ex) pet cat / good boy

관련rule) Alveolar stop assimilation
Assimilation occurs when alveolar stop sounds
assimilate to the place or articulation of the
following non-alveolar stops (velar stops,
bilabial stops) across word boundaries, while
maintaining the original voicing
ex) weed killer, night cap, white paper, red
badge

TITLE

Flapping  출제 빈도 매우 높음

<2008. 17 >
1. ‘Oral alveolar stops are pronounced as a flap

after a ’stressed vowel’ and before an
unstressed vowel’ >> 뒤가 더 중요

ex) would you care for a ‘bit of’ cheese?

<2009. 24 >
2.  (심화) /t/ becomes a flap between a vowel plus
an optional /r/ and an unstressed vowel
Ex) heating, article, beauty, butter, pity, creator

<2013. 30 >
3. neutralization 의 일종으로 rule 이 제시됨
: The phonemic between /t/ and /d/ is lost
between a stressed and an unstressed vowel,
resulting in the neutralization of contrast in that
position Ex) writer vs rider

<2016. B.2 > stressed vowel / unstressed vowel
사이 나오는거 제외 다른 조건 두가지 서술하기!
• flapping also occurs between unstressed vowels
ex) comedy, humanity, monitor
=Only condition related to stress : the target
alveolar stop cannot be in a stressed syllable

•

Alveolar stops are flapped when they are
between a vowel and a syllabic lateral

Ex)riddle, saddle, battle

<2020. A. 7 > 간단히 박스 형태로 언급만함.
예 : greater

관련rule) flapping (tapping)
1) 일반적인 룰
The most conductive envoronment for this
process is intervocalic, when the second syllable
is unstressed
ex) attic / attact

2) first revision
The principle is also valid across word boundaries
ex) at all (/t/ is coda of ‘unstressed syllable’) / a
tall (/t/ is onset of the stressed syllable

3) third revision
-flapping also occurs between unstressed vowels
ex) nationality, sorority, calamity
=Only condition related to stress : the target
alveolar stop cannot be in a stressed syllable
cf. This condition also includes the secondary
stress.
ex) sabotage, latex , in which /t/ targets are in
syllables with secondary stress

4) fourth revision (unclear intervocalic
environment)
(1) Intervocalic alveolar stops /t d/ are flapped
when there is r-coloring of the ‘first vowel’
ex) porter, border (r-coloring 이 앞뒤로 일어나지만
여기서는 first V 에 초점)
(2) Alveolar stops are flapped when they are
between a vowel and a syllabic consonant
ex) little, cattle, bitter, butter (뒤에 두개때매
syllabic lateral X)

Palatalization

<2007.12 >
1. Alveolar stops and following palatal
approximant [j] ‘fuse to give the voiced post-
alveolar affricate.
ex) would you / did you / don’t you

<2012.33>
2.(심화 버전, ficative 와 연계) The ‘coalescent
assimilation (용어미 출제) or palatalization occurs
when ’a morpheme-final or word-final alveolar
obstruents is follwed by palatal glide’ in English
ex) delusion, follows you, his yacht, departure

*coalescent assimilation : When neighboring
sound mutually affect each other to merge into a
third sound.

<2020.A.7> 박스 형태로 예시 하나만 줌 ex) can’t you
3. ‘palatalization’이라고 간략히 언급만 되고, 룰 도출해
내는게 문제였음 (morepheme / syllable / word 모두
섞어 낼수도)
ex) did you / can’t you

TITLE

/t/ deletion

/g/ deletion

 Regressive nasal assimilation

<2009.24 > 룰 제시 >> 해당 단어 고르기
rule이 제시됨 ( flapping이랑 같이 ) : /t/ is deleted
after /n/ when followed by an unstressed vowel.
예 : painting, fundamental, county ( sentential는
/t/가 삭제 안됨 )

<2011. 33>
1. delete phonemic segments in a certain

룰 미출제

context  / 항상어려움 꼭 숙지하기/ 간단하게 언급만
하고 넘어감

ex) sign / signature

<2020. A.7 > consonant deletion으로 박스에 제시
간단히 제시만 되고 얘는 문제에서 활용 안함.
예 : advantage

Rule : Voiceless alveolar stop /t/ is deleted after
alveolar nasal /n/ in unstressed syllable.
>> CCR와 연계 가능
예 : winter (O) <-> contain (X)

관련rule)
- voiced velar stop /g/ is deleted before nasal
consonant when the cluster comes together in
the same syllable
ex) sign signature gnostic
- 다른버전 (aep 9과)
- Postvocalic /g/ before final nasals /n/ and /
m/ is silent in sign and paradigm, but is
pronounced in derivatives of the words such as
‘signature and paradigmatic.

/g/ is deleted before syllable-final and syllable-
initial nasal, followed by tautosyllabic /n/
빈칸 : nasal / natural

< 2019. A. 4 > 위에 제시된 룰 출제 안됨 / 룰 도출 아님

1. Across morpheme boundaries, obligatory nasal
assimilation to ‘ bilabials or alveolars’ applies
without restriction (미출제)

   ex) composition, symbolic, condemnation

On the other hand, obligatory nasal assimilation to
‘velars’ applies selectively. That is, the obligatory
nasal assimilation applies only when preceded by a
stressed vowel and followed by an unstressed vowel
with a velar involved -> morpheme 관련x
ex) concord (0) / concordance (x)

+

'

」 "

TITLE

Syllabic nasal <2007. 6 >

룰만 제시 / 단어 고르기함

orthographic ng

σ

Liquid assimilation vs dissimilation

<2016. B.2 > syllabic liquid 관련해서 나올 수 있음.
물론 이 문제는 flapping 문제 !

관련 rule :
1. For nasal to be a syllabic, it has to be
immediately preceded by an obstruent.
ex ) sudden, open, button, taken / *felon *carom

When the obstruent preceding the nasal is
following another consonant, the nasal tned not
to be syllabic, as we normally insert a schwa in
that syllable. ex) *piston

Syllabic nasal requires the preceding homorganic
obstruent (논쟁존재!!)
ex) bacon, ribbon, open / *madam, modem, chasm
cf. 여기서 *는 syllabic nasal 안된다는 뜻

<2022. B. 4 > + phonetic variation / assimilation
Syllabic liquid과 nasal 앞에 올 수 있는 consonant를
feature로 제시 / 앞 자음과 항상 조음 위치가 같은거 !
syllabic liquid : [ + consonantal ]
syllabic nasal : [ - sonorant ]
syllabic [ŋ] is always homorganic with the
preceding consonant because it occurs only when
it is preceded by a velar consonant.

1. Liquid dissimilation : They may change feature
values to make two phonemes in a string more
dissimilar. < 2011.33 >

룰은 미출제

Ex) similar/ spiritual

Syllabic liquid
< 2009. 34 >
The lateral /l/ can be syllabic following a
sequence of a stressed vowel and an alveolar
stop ex) middle, channel

<2016. B. 4 > 언급만 함~
아마 이제 얘가 나온다면 계속 강조하는 이걸 건드릴 것!
When the obstruent preceding the liquid is
following another consonant, the liquid tend not
to be syllabic, as we normally insert a schwa in
that syllable.
ex2) *pistol

2. < 2020. B. 3 > - allomorph의 정의 등장 !! 두둥
룰 도출해내기 출제됨, but il-/ir- 미출제!! 가능성 있어보
임 ( 이건 A박스에서 예시로 준것 )
1) negative morphemes il- and ir-
=> assimilation
When the base begins with /l/, the prefix il- is
chosen, and when the base begins with /r/, the
prefix ir- is chosen.
Ex) illegal / irregular

2) adjectival suffix ­ar and ­al
=> dissimilation : When the base ends with
[+lateral] consonant, the suffix ­ar is chosen,
and when the base ends with [-lateral]
consonant, the suffix ­al is chosen.
Ex) singular, rural

Segment insertion - epenthesis
<2005. 23 >
When the consonant ends with sibilant, the
plural suffix -s is pronounced as [  z]

∂

∂

Insert a [. ] before the plural morpheme [z]
when a regular noun ends in a sibilant,
giving [   ].

E

<2011.33>
the voiced [z] of the English regular plural suffix
is changed to [s] after a voiceless sound
>> Ex: kids ( 여기선 voiced이기에 [ kIdz]

>> morphophonemic rule : an alternation of
different phoneme for the same morpheme
( morphophonemic alternation )

TITLE

Nasal place assimilation < 2010. 30>

1.

In English, place of articulation and manner
of articulation can be found in the
alternations of the negative prefix ‘-in’
2. ex) incoherent / in+regular=irregular /

in+mature = immature

-> irregular 이나 immature 은 assimilation 일어난
뒤에 degemination (two identical consonants are
fused into one : 용어 미출제) occurs
>> 그래서 irregular는 아래와 같은 패턴이 됨.

devoicing and schwa insertion for plural suffix
and past tense ( 아까 했던 개념과 겹침 )

< 2005.23 >
1. Plural suffix ­s is pronounced as [어z] after a
sibilant sound (sibilant/strident 용어 + plural
suffix ­s 관련 미출제)
ex) buses, benches, mazes

<2011.33 >
2. (심화x, 단순반복) plural suffix-s -> 그렇다면 이번
엔 rule 출제가능 성 있음

Neutralization < 2013. 30 >
-> Phonemic contrast generally observed is not
found in a given environment
ex)
• flapping 때문에 /t/,/d/ 대조 사라짐 +
• syllable final /r/ 때문에 tense, lax /i/ 사라짐
• /p,t,k/ in syllable final position are realized as

glottal stop ( eg, tip, pit, kick )

• In African English , /I/ and /3/ are pronounced
the same before nasal consonants(Eg. Pin, pen )

주의: neutralization은 애초에 ‘contrast’ 가 있어야함 따
라서 aspiration 같은 rule에는 적용안됨 (헷갈리게 냈었음)

Gemination 정의 :
자음이 중복된 그 현상 자체를 가리킴
따라서 gemination이 일어난다 안일어난다라고 적으면
틀림/ lengthening in gemination이 정확한 표현~
( pronounced as one prolonged sound )

관련rule)
1. Plural suffix ­s (null 값: [z])
1) after stem-final voiceless consonant -> [s]
2) after stem-final voiced consonant -> [z]
3) after stem-final sibilant -> [iz] / [shcwa+z]

2. Past tense ­ed
1) after stem-final voiceless consonant -> [t]
2) after stem-final voiced consonant -> [d]
3) after stem-final alveolar stops -> [id] /
[shcwa+d]

< 2022. A. 4 > + sonority

: When two consonants appear word-initially, the
sonority of the first consonant is lower than that
of the second one except for /s/ and voiceless
obstruent sequences such as [st ] : stop or [sf] in
sphere.

Some consonant clusters including liquid as the
second do not appear in word-initial position except
for few loanwords/ As a result the contrast
between the two liquids /l/ and /r/ is neutralized
after coronal obstruents in word-initial positions.

Consonant cluster simplification ( CCC )

<2008. 17 >
―>> Oral alveolar stops are deleted if they are
central in a sequence of three consonants.
ex) Please ‘send Susan’ a box of chocolate

If a word that ends in a consonant
cluster is followed by a word that
begins with a consonant, the last
consonant of the cluster is deleted.
The next word should begin with

consonants o

( toptional

Schwa deletion

< 2021. A. 6 > (cid:18573)(cid:18573) foot의 시작…

TITLE

둘다 용어 출제 가능성 있음

Anticipation and preservation error

<2011. 35 >
1. Anticipation error / preservation error
1) Anticipation E : A segment that occurs later
in a series is repeated in an ealier position
ex) The bilabial stop of the first word ‘cup’ was
replaced by a labio-dental fricative of the third
word coffee.
―>> cup of coffee - cuff of coffee

2) Preservation E : A segment that occurs
earlier in a series is repeated in a later position.
ex) The bilabial stop of the third word ‘boy’ was
replaced( *switched 아님 )  with a velar fricative
of the first word ‘gave’.
―>> Gave the boy - gave the goy

Metathesis ( error )
: Two segments switch places.
Ex) The alveolar fricative of the second word
zipper and the alveolar nasal of the fourth word
narrow switched places.
―>> The zipper is narrow - the nipper is zarrow

< 2017. B. 3 >
1. Schwa deletion 이 일어나는 환경 generalize 하게 함.
-> Schwa is deleted after the stressed vowel and
followed by another schwa. ( two phonetic 환경)

Ex) The coda consonants of the first and third
words were reversed/ Hence the first vowel in the
actual utterance lost nasalization since it no
longer occurs before a nasal consonant.
Instead, the third vowel in the actual utterance is
nasalized since it is followed by a nasal consonant.
―>> gone to seed - god to seen

Nasalization due to metathesis ( 출제 가능 )
관련rule) Nasalized vowels
English vowels (and diphthongs) are nasalized
when they occur before a nasal consonant.

,

'

1

'

'

'

'

1

'

Vaa
、 a

iav
2

Va a
VaV

ia a
a

<2020. A. 7 > vowel deletion이라고 표를 통해 언급만
예 : because 의 e가 careful speech 에서는 schwa로 발
음 / 그러나 connected speech에서는 없어진다.

2020 에 출제되었는데!! 다음해에 다시 세게 건들었음.
+ foot/strong and weak syllable 개념 간단하게 언
급, 다시 출제가능
기출개념) ‘Foot is a prosodic unit above syllable,
which consists of one obligatory strong syllable
and optional weak syllables.

Feet seems to have many different structures
in English. For example,
1) there are feet composed of a single stressed
syllable (son)
2) feet where a stressed syllable is followed by
one stressless syllable (mother)
3) feet where a stressed syllable is followed by
two or more stressless syllables (canada).
Sometimes, a strong syllable appears in the
second (banana).
Foot structure can change do to a schwa-
deletion.
=> 여기서 2) 가 가장 선호됨 (SW 구조)

>> 문제는 schwa가 삭제될 수 있는 단어를 두개 고르고,
가장 선호되는 foot structure 고르기였다.

TITLE

관련 개념
1. Foot
A syllable foot consists of one obligatory strong
syllable and optional weak syllables. The division
of the foot need not coincide with word
boundaries
2. Strong vs Weak vowels
-Strong = heavy
-Weak = light / weightless / unstressed

Vowel neutralization ( r-coloring neutralization )

< 2013. 30 > 간단하게 언급 / A박스에서
>> The vowel /i/ within syllables closed by /r/
Ex: beer / is produced somewhere between a
tense /i/ and a lax vowel /I/ and there is no
contrast between a tense and lax vowel before
syllable final /r/

Trisyllabic laxing
< 2017. A. 4 >
Rule : It is a rule which changes a tense vowel
into a lax vowel. This rule applies when the
target vowel is pushed into the ante-
penultimate syllable due to the attachment of a
suffix

강세랑은상관 X

관련rule) r-coloring neutralization with vowels
When the folloinwg /r/ is in the same syllable
(tautosyllabic), the vowel takes on retroflex
quality (r-coloring). When r-coloring happens,
vowel contrasts of English are neturalized (lost)

Foot need not coincide with word boundaries!
>> 최팀 9-11 2회 B형 6번

모음의 위치를 보면 알 수 있음

The tense vowels in words like ‘nightingale’ and
‘ivory’ do not undergo because they do not
have any ‘suffix’ ( 빈칸 채우기가 문제 )

monomorphemic word에서는 일어나지 않음

박경선팀 음운론 답 :
Word-medial /r/ is deleted when it is in coda
position and is followed by the second /r/ in the
subsequent syllable('s coda position).

Word-medial /r/ is deleted when it is in coda
position and (it) is followed by the second // in
coda position of the subsequent syllable.

나의 착각 :
두 단어를 꼭 word-medial deletion 규칙에 의해 구해야
할 필요가 없다! horror는 word-final /r/의 deletion
이기 때문! 지문의 디렉션을 잘 보자! 그리고 지문에 버릴게
없다는것만 알아두자! 낚시일수도 있지만 불필요한 말은
하지 않는다!!!

1

1

corridor와 horror의 예시 때문에 immediately
following syllable로 들어가야 하지 않나?

coridor

horor

TITLE

/r/ deletion < 2024. B. 4 >

전에 나왔던 개념 언급 : dissimilation / -al suffix
appears in the form of -ar to avoid the repetition
of /l/ in the final syllable, when it attaches to
stem ending with /l/
Eg : annual, mental, coronal vs angular, similar,
velar.

Repeated segments are repaired by deletion as
well as dissimilation >> 이게 큰 힌트 !!

지문에서 /r/이 coda position에 오는 예시와 word-
medial에 오는 예시를 다 주고 word-medial /r/
deletion이 일어나는 조건을 구하게 함. word-medial /r/
만 보면 됨 !
강세에 대한 언급이 없어서 찾기 어려웠지만! schwa가 보이
면 stressed/ unstressed는 항상 염두에 두고 읽어야 함.

word-medial /r/ is deleted when it is in the coda
position of a stressed syllable and the following
syllable has another /r/ in the coda position of an
unstressed syllable at the same time.

디렉션 : phonological conditions
• coda position of a stressed syllable
• Following syllable /r/ in the coda of unstressed

syllable

TITLE  분류 6 : Stress and intonation

주의사항 :
-date 전부 강세 체크하기, 특히 heavy syllable 에서
coda 에 consonant 몇개 오는지 체크해야함
-강세규칙 품사별로 섞여 나오면 품사부터 체크하기
-rule 도출하고 꼭 다시 거꾸로 data 에 적용해보기
-intonation pattern 도출시 context 모두를 고려해서
답 제시하기

3. Verb stress (음절 상관 x)
-기본 rule) heavy 한 ult 에 강세 / heavy 하지 않으면
heavy 한 왼쪽으로 계속 이동
cf. ult syllable 의 heavy 여부 확인시, 마지막 자음 하나
없이도 heavy 한지 확인해보기( 이게 찐 heavy)
ex) consider / astonish / imagine

* exception : ult가 heavy 한데도 강세x
copy / rescue / envy / argue / diagram / worry /
study

4. Homographs (noun/verb) -> disyllabic 일때만 -
기본 rule) 명전동후 ( 철자는 같으나 뜻이 다름 )
* exception 1) 둘다 penult 인 경우
promise, silence, harvest, truimph
* exception 2) 둘다 ult 인 경우 surprise / delay /
result

주요 개념 : 품사별 stress ( 명전동후 )
Antepenult(imate), penult(imate), ult

1. Noun & Adejctive stress (disyllabic 일때) -
기본 rule : default stress는 heavy한 penult
heavy 하지 않으면 ult에
* exception : penult heavy 한데도 ult에 강세오는 경우
July / mundane / obscure / obscene / robust/
shampoo/ typhoon / antique/ okay / sardine

2. Noun stress (polysyllabic 일때) -
기본rule: default stress는 heavy한 penult에
heavy하지 않으면 heavy 한 왼쪽으로 계속 이동
(ex: algebra, buffalo, vitamin)
* exception 1 : retain the original final stress (ult)
- French 영향
cavalier / engineer / clarinet / magazine /
gasoline / cigarette / waranteee / kangaroo /
chimpanzee / mayonaise / cassett/ serenade

*exception 2: stress on antepenult syllable
despite the fact that penult is heavy
alien/mania/period --> 뒤에오는 모음 전부다
diphthong 이 아니고, 각각의 syllable 임

TITLE

< 2003. 7 > 음운론 + 영교론( 다시 나올 수 있을것 같음)
segmental : consonant + vowel
>> accuracy가 더 강조!! ( for 정확성 )
Suprasegmental : intonation, stress, tone
>> intelligibility 가 더 강조 !! ( for 이해도 )

< 2003. 15 >

When words are combined into phrases and
sentences, one syllable receives greater stress
(=primary stress) than all others.

This is the dog를 발음과 억양으로 설명
>> While this sentence consists of four words,
the major stress falls on the last content word
‘dog’. In terms of intonation, this is a declarative
sentence which shows the rising-falling pattern.

*출제개념
- compound noun 에서는 보통 adjectival part 에
primary stress ( 하나로 합쳐져서 특별한 의미 더함)
ex) tightrope (rope for acrobatics) / redcoat
(british soldier) / hotdog (frankfurter) / white
house (priseident’s house)

+ 개념 :
•

stress는 보통 last content word에 tonic stress
가 온다.
intonation : 문장 마무리 ) rising-falling /

•
불확실하고 끝나지 X ) rising intonation

- noun phrase 일때에는 noun 에 primary stress
ex) tight rope (a rope drown taut) / red coat ( a
coat is red) 등등 ( 단어 두개가 연결만 되고 의미 변화 X)

문제 ) 여기서는 형용사. 명사가 중요한게 아님
English teacher : teacher that teach English
>> 강세가 English에 ! ( compound noun처럼 쓰임 )

English teacher : teacher who is English
>> 강세가 teacher에 ! ( 그냥 두 단어가 연결만 됨 )

< 2006. 11 > content vs function ( prominence차이)
Pronoun - function word 라는 거!

>> Vowels in function words are reduced to schwa.
Ex ) A , of
>> The onsets in function words are omitted.
Ex) her, them
>> The codas in function words are deleted except in
the case that the onsets are already deleted.
Ex) and

< 2005. 23 > emphatic stress ( 용어는 등장 X )
원래 다른 syllable보다 pitch increase가 많은 하나의
syllable = tonic syllable이라고 함.
보통 last content word에 온다. 하지만 강조를 하고 싶
으면 다른 곳에 올 수 있음.

1) Peter met Jennifer in his office too.
>> Presupposed part : Peter met someone other
than Jennifer in his office. ( 이건 강세를 받지 X )
>> Peter met Jennifer as well as some other
person.

2) Peter met Jennifer in his office, too.
>> Presupposed part : Other person also met
Jennifer in his office.
>> Peter as well as some other person met
Jennifer in his office.

다시 나올 수 있지 않을까? 아예 서술식으로

A tone group is a unit of information rather
than a syntactically definable unit. Thus, the
way the speaker shapes his or her utterance
depends on what he or she considers to be the
important point (new info) in the sentence.

TITLE

< 2007. 17 > heavy syllable이 뭔지 data를 통해 도출

We notice that final syllable is stressed when it
contains multiple consonants, diphthong, or long
vowel in its rhyme section. That is the final
syllable is stressed when the rhyme is heavy in a
sense. ( rhyme : nucleus + 뒤따라오는 자음 )

< 2008. 6 > TG question part에 나오는 개념(cid:18573)(cid:18573)
A박스에 준게 전부 rising pattern.
• high rise : 놀라서 믿을 수 없는 경우
( 지문의 경우 ) Tom이 요리를 한것이 놀라움 )
• low rise : yes,no question, repetition 요구, 불확
실한 정보에 대해 tag question으로 확인할 때 등

Final syllable에 강세가 오는 얘들 - 다 주어짐
Ex) exclude, attract, annoy, divide, abstract,
delight, incline, salute, contain, protest.

< 2008. 14 > stress rule

< 2010.33 > stress-shifting suffix ( suffix 다줌 )

>> 이번에는 아예 strong syllable이라고 언급하며 다 줬
다! ( heavy syllable )

강세를 동사와 명사로 나누고 해당 규칙이 적용된 단어를
고르라고 함. ( 강세/ 발음기호는  안줌 )

+ suffix가 maximal onset principle에 의해서 마지막
자음 하나를 onset으로 데려오기에 그걸 빼고 syllable
weight를 생각해야 함/ The syllable boundaries will
not always coincide with morpheme boundaries
Ex) star +y >> sta / rry

>> competency 강세는 com에 있다!
>> hononym +y = 마지막 /m/은 /i/의 onset으로 빼
고 생각! suffix 바로 앞에 [n,schwa]이기에 light함으
로 바로 전 음절로 강세가 이동

TITLE

< 2012. 36 > intonation이 또 나왔다
falling intonation : finality, completion
Rising intonation : non-definiteness, lack of
assurance, incompletion, repetition

Ex) We might need to go that way to escape this
hazard.
Are you sure ? (2-3-2)
>> B does not think that A is certain at all.
>> B는 A가 자신의 진술에 확신이 없다는 것을 알고 있다.

< 2016. A. 6 > stress- series~~
Stress-bearing, stress-neutral, stress-shifting
>> stress-shifting의 강세가 어디로 이동하는지 물어볼
수 있지 않을까?

suffix -y가 noun forming이냐 adjective forming이
냐에 따라 다름 (AEP )
Noun forming : telephone-telephony
>> stress-shifting
Adjective forming : summer -summery
>> stress-neutral

ex) celib-acy, green-ish, alchohol-ism, human-
ist, silk-y (매번 헷갈림)
Stress-neutral suffixes do not make any
difference to the stress of the root

< 2018. A.4 > heavy syllable / stress
강세가 heavy한 syllable에 있다는 것을 전년도 기출들 활
용 문제~~ ( 이번에 heavy syllable의 정의를 주지 X )

< 2022. A. 6 > foot !!
>> aspiration을 foot으로 설명해보거라~
( + flapping : foot-internally )

< 2023. B.4 > foot !!

-al이 attach가 안되는 명사들이 왜 그런지 설명
>> B박스가 도움을 준거라 생각

답을 찾는 과정 :
1) -st-는 onset 또는 coda에 둘 다 가능
2) B박스 단어들은 antepenultimate syllable stressed
3) 강세 규칙을 활용 ( A박스 )
4) B박스 단어들이 penultimate syllable이 light해야함
5) coda가 없어야 light하므로 /s/는 onset이다

A박스 :
• trochaic foot이 뭔지 아예 예시를 들어 발음기호랑
강세까지 보여주면서 설명함 ( 제2강세도 상관 없음)

• aspiration의 개념을 설명함
• 아래의 aspiration이 되는 단어와 안되는 단어를 섞

어서 설명함 >> 되고 안되고를

B박스 : aspiration이 되는 단어 두개 고르기
aspiration이 되는 환경을 foot의 개념에서 설명
>> 아 ~ 처음에 나왔던 trochaic foot을 사용하면 됨

voiceless stops are aspirated at the initial
position of a (trochaic) foot.
>> trochaic을 써주지 않아도 되는 이유는 애당초 foot
이 ( stressed syllable + optional unstressed
syllable이기 때문 ) / 그리고 데이터에 iambic foot을
보이는 단어는 없다. ?? 질문하자 (cid:18573)(cid:18573)

Trochaic foot
1) primary stress + unstress
2) secondary stress +unstress

결국 전체 단어로 봤을때는 penultimate이지만 suffix
붙기 전으로 봤을 때는 ult에 stress가 있는 단어에만 붙
는것! >> 이걸 서술로 출제

The phonological generalization is that ‘noun-
forming suffix ­al’ is attached to the verb stem
- that is stressed in the ultimate syllable.
-that has iambic foot structure. ( foot으로 기술하
라 했으면 이렇게 했어야 함 )

TITLE

대망의 작년 < 2024. A. 6 > 문제!!
시험장에서 매우 당황했던 문제지만 생각보다 간단했음
>> 결국 지문 처음부터 말하기를 stress-reverse가 되려
면 앞에 제 2강세가 있어야 함! (cid:18573)(cid:18573)

하나 의문점이 제 2강세도 어쨋든 강세가 있는거 아닌가?
strong syllable인거 아닌가? 하지만 지문에 clash of
two lexical primary stress라고 하시길~~
제 2강세는 foot level에서는 weaker이다!

foot level

syllable level

\

'

Stress-shift occurs in b. 'economic [, eka'namik]
growth' and c. 'unexplained [anik'splend]
symptom'.
There must be a target foot for stress to move
to, as stress-shift operates at the foot level.

There must be a target foot before the first foot
containing a lexical primary stress in order to
shift to because stress-shift is defined at the
foot level (rather than at the syllable level).

제 2강세 / 제1강세
>> foot level에서 표시하는 S,W는 stronger, weaker
이지 절대 제2강세가 있는 부분이 그냥 weak라는 말이 아
니다~~따라 이 문제도 target foot이라고 하는 이유가
옮겨갈 foot이 있는지의 여부이기에 target foot이라고
표현한것임
>> 제2강세도 비강세 음절보다는 stronger하다

The foot should include secondary stress
followed by primary stress라고 하면~가능하나?

+ eurhythmy, eurhythmic structure
>- optimal rhythmic structure with the S-W
foot structure, with only one unstressed
syllable to the right of the stressed syllable.
Thus, foot structures with more than one W
syllable are less eurhythmic. less optimal, than
those with only one.
optimal rhythmic structures are referred to
as eurhythmic structures.  The optimal, most
eurhythmic, foot structure is a simple S-W
structures.

Iambic foot이라는게 syllable 단위에서 unstress +
stress를 가지고 있는것임!
Foot 단위가 아님 ( W foot + S foot XX )

TITLE 최팀 9-11 작년 모고 3회 B형

