Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

1. Cognitive perspective

in SLA

language develops out of the child's thoughts and
growing awareness of the world. This is at variance
with the view that language is "hard-wired" in the
brain, and that the capacity to learn languages is
something we are born with. A later version of cogni-
tive learning theory suggests that the child acquires
langue by forming and testing hypothesis about the
adult language it hears around it.

2.

information process-
ing

the human cognitive architecture is made of repre-
sentation(knowledge) and access(processing).

3.

proceduralization

declarative knowledge > procedural knowledge

4. Socio-cultural per-

spective

their focus is on interaction and on language as the
major tool for engaging in collaborative activity in a
community of language users.

5.

Zone of Proximal De-
velopment

the distance between learner's existing develop-
mental stage and their potential development.

6.

input hypothesis

the idea that exposure to comprehensible input
which contains structures that are slightly in ad-
vance of learner's current level of competence is the
necessary and sufficient cause of second language
acquisition.

7.

comprehensible input a little beyond the learner's current competence, in
terms of syntactic complexity

8.

affective filter

a mental block that prevents acquirers from fully
utilizing the comprehensible input they receive for
language acquisition such as motivation, self-es-
teem, and low anxiety

9.

Interaction hypothe-
sis

the hypothesis that language acquisition requires
or greatly benefits from interaction, communication
and especially negotiation of meaning

10.

1 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

communication
breakdown

a failure to exchange information, resulting in a lack
of communication

11.

interactional modifi-
cation

meaning negotiation prompts learners to adjust, ma-
nipulate, and modify their own output: Confirmation
checks (You mean...?), Comprehension checks (Do
you understand? Got it? Okay?), Clarification re-
quests (What? Sorry? Excuse me?)

12. meaning negotiation to resolve communication breakdowns and to work

13. World Englishes

14. speech acts

15. proxemics

16. Euphemism

17.

formality

toward mutual comprehension/help Ss to obtain
comprehensible input

a term for emerging localized or indigenized vari-
eties of English, especially varieties that have de-
vloped in territories influenced by the U.K or the U.S.

the utterance as a functional unit in communica-
tion. This includes thanking, requesting information,
apologizing, refusing, warning, complimenting, di-
recting, complaining and so on.

the study of the physical distance between people
when they are talking to each other, as well as
their postures and whether or not there is physical
contact during their conversations.

a word or phrase that replaces a taboo word or is
used to avoid frightening or unpleasant subjects.

variations of linguistic style or tone in relation to
conventions regarding appropriateness to the social
context of use.

18. register

the way that language use varies according to vari-
ations in the context

19.

intercultural compe-
tence

being able to understand the differences which may
arise as a result of different cultural backgrounds

2 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

20. culture capsule

21. culture island

and to communicate and integrate across these dif-
ferences.

students hear a brief discussion that illustrates a
difference between Korean culture and the target
culture, discuss the difference, perform role plays,
integrate information into activities that incorporate
other skills

the teacher maintains a classroom atmosphere that
is essentially a culture island through the use of
posters, pictures, a frequently changing bulletin
board to attract students' attention, elicit questions,
and comments.

22. Error Analysis

the study and analysis of the errors made by second
language learners.

23. Positive evidence

well-formed sentences to which learners are ex-
posed

24. Negative evidence

information that is provided to Ss concerning the
incorrectness of utterance

25. Output hypothesis

26. Pushed output

27. Modified output

the hypothesis that successful second language ac-
quisition requires not only comprehensible input, but
also comprehensible output, language produced by
the learner that can be understood by other speak-
ers of the language. It has been argued that when
learners have to make efforts to ensure that their
messages are communicated (pushed output) this
puts them in a better position to notice the gap
between their productions and those of proficient
speakers, fostering acquisition.

output that learners can produce when they are
pushed to use the target language accurately and
concisely.

3 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

language produced by the learner that is modified
from the initial utterance either in response to feed-
back or without feedback, irrespective of the extent
to which the reformulation is targetlike

28. enhanced output

29. Comprehensible out-

put

language produced by the learner that can be un-
derstood by other speakers.

30. self-repair

correct one's mistake on his/her own

31.

focus-on-form ap-
proach

32.

language transfer

draw Ss' attention to linguistic forms in the context
of meaningful communication/ induce learner's inci-
dental learning by drawing their attention to target
forms while they are engaged in communicative ac-
tivities.

1) negative transfer: the learner's L1 is one of the
sources of error in learner language 2) positive
transfer: the learner's L1 can facilitate L2 acquisi-
tion.

33. Overgeneralization

the application of a grammatical rule in cases where
it doesn't apply

34. positive transfer

occurs when the prior knowledge benefits the learn-
ing task

35. negative transfer (in-

terference)

occurs when previous performance disrupts or in-
hibits the performance of a second task

36.

interlanguage

37. global error

the type of language produced by second- and for-
eign-language learners who are in the process of
learning a language

an error in the use of a major element of sentence
structure, which makes a sentence or utterance dif-
ficult or impossible to understand.

4 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

38.

local error

39. overt error

40. covert error

41. display question

an error in the use of an element of sentence struc-
ture, but which does not cause problems of compre-
hension.

an error detected by inspecting the sentence or
utterance in which it occurs

an error which only become apparent when a larger
stretch of discourse is considered.

a question which is not a real question (i.e. which
does not seek information unknown to the teacher)
but which serves to elicit language practice.

42. referential question

a question which asks for information which is not
known to the teacher.

43. uptake

44. successful uptake

the learner incorporates the lingustic information
into his/her subsequent production.

45. unsuccessful uptake the learner's failure to incorporate, fully or partially,
into his/her production the linguistic information that
the feedback was intended to address.

46.

implicit negative feed-
back

the correct form is provided without informing Ss of
their mistake

47. Clarification request

indicates to Ss either that their utterance has
been misunderstood by T or that the utterance is
ill-formed in some way and that a repetition or re-
formulation is required.

48. Comprehension

check

speaker attempts to determine whether the other
speaker has understood a preceding message

49. Confirmation check

listener seeks confirmation of the other's preceding
utterance through repetition, with rising intonation,

5 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

50. Recast

51. Repetition

52. Elicitation

53. Metalinguistic feed-

back

54. Explicit correction

55.

IRE

56.

IRF

of what was perceived to be all or part of the pre-
ceding utterance.

reformulate an ill-formed utterance in an unobtru-
sive way

T repeats the ill-formed part of the S's utterance
usually with a change in intonation.

The teacher elicitates Ss to find out the alternative
correct form retrieving from their own knowledge
forwardly.

feedback which provides the learner with metalin-
guistic comments in the form of a statement or a
question about the correctedness of an utterance
without explicitly providing the correct form.

feedback where a teacher directly tells a student
what a mistake was and provides the correct an-
swer.

the teacher initiates a question in order to check a
student's knowledge, a student responds, and the
student's response is evaluated with feedback from
the teacher.

Initiation Response Feedback. A pattern of discus-
sion between the teacher and learner. The teacher
initiates, the learner responds, the teacher gives
feedback. This approach to the exchange of infor-
mation in the classroom has been criticized as being
more about the learner saying what the teacher
wants to hear than really communicating.
Example: The teacher asks a learner for rules about
use of the present perfect, the learner gives an
answer, and the teacher says whether that is correct
or not.

57. Contrastive Analysis

6 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

58. Contrastive Analysis

Hypothesis

59.

interlingual error

60.

intralingual error

61.

induced errors

the comparison of the linguistic systems of two lan-
guages.

States that a language learners errors can be pre-
dicted by examining the similarities and differences
between the language systems of the learners na-
tive language and target language

an error resulting from language transfer, caused
by the learner's native language, e.g. I feel myself
better

it can be classified as overgeneralizations, sim-
plifications, developmental errors, communica-
tion-based errors, induced errors, errors of avoid-
ance, or errors of overproduction.

errors caused by something in the learner's envi-
ronment, such as the teacher, a textbook, or the
classroom methodology

62. Foreigner talk

the language that native speakers use when ad-
dressing non-native speakers

63. discourse compe-

tence

knowing how to begin and end conversation./ mas-
tery of how to combine grammatical forms and
meanings to achieve a unified spoken or written text

64. grammatical compe-

tence

knowledge of grammar, vocabulary, phonology, and
semantics of a language

65. sociolinguistic com-

petence

knowledge of the relationship between language
and its nonlinguistic context, knowing how to use
and respond appropriately to different types of
speech acts, knowing which address forms should
be used with different persons one speaks to and in
different situations, and so forth.

66. strategic competence knowledge of communication strategies that can

compensate for weakness in other areas

7 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

67. pragmatic compe-

tence

68. backsliding

69.

fossilization

being able to use language appropriately according
to context (taking into account such complexities as
social distance and indirectness) in order to accom-
plish one's communicative goals.

the regular reappearance of features of a learner's
interlanguage which were thought to have disap-
peared.

a process in which sometimes occurs in which in-
correct linguistic features become a permanent part
of the way a person speaks or writes a language.

70.

intrinsic motivation

enjoyment of language itself

71. extrinsic motivation

driven by external factors such as parental pressure,
societal expectations, academic requirements, or
other sources of rewards and punishments.

72.

integrative orientation a willingness to be like valued members of the lan-

guage community

73.

instrumental orienta-
tion

a willingness towards practical concerns such as
getting a job or passing an examination.

74. ambiguity tolerance

the ability to deal with ambiguity with new stimuli
without frustration and without appeals to authority/
high risk taking

75.

facilitative anxiety

helpful anxiety, euphoric tension, competitiveness

76. debilitative anxiety

harmful anxiety, keep one alert, unbalanced, not
relaxed

77.

trait anxiety

78. state anxiety

at the deepest, global level of anxiety, more perma-
nent predisposition to be anxious

at a more momentary, situational level of anxiety, in
relation to some particular event/act

8 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

79. risk-taking

a personality factor which concerns the degree to
which a person is willing to undertake actions that
involve a significant degree of risk.

80. willingness to com-

intention to initiate communication, given a choice

municate

81. reflective style

82.

impulsive style

learns more effectively when they have time to con-
sider new information before responding -> more
accurate but slower in timed tests.

learns more effectively when they can respond to
new information immediately -> risk takers, more
willing to speak and better in timed tests, but less
accurate.

83.

field-independent
style

a learning style in which a learner is able to identify
or focus on particular items and is not distracted by
other items in the background or context.

84.

field-dependent style a learning style in which a learner tends to look at
the whole of a learning task which contains many
items.

85. kinesthetic style

show a preference for demonstrations and physical
activity involving bodily movement

86. visual style

tend to prefer reading and studying charts, draw-
ings, and other graphic information

87. auditory style

tend to prefer listening to lectures and audiotapes

88.

tactile style

enjoy working with hands or making things

89. metacognitive strate-

gies

high order strategies -> planning, monitoring, and
evaluating learning

90. cognitive strategies

thought processes used directly in dealing with the
learning task

9 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

91. socio-affective strate-

gies

socio-mediating activity -> cooperation, question for
clarification

92. communication
strategies

a way used to express a meaning in a second or
foreign language, by a learner who has a limited
command of language.

93. avoid strategies
(avoidance)

when speaking or writing a second language, a
speaker will often try to avoid using a difficult word
or structure, and will use a simpler word or structure
instead.

94. compensatory strate-

compensation for missing knowledge

gies

95.

time-gaining (stalling) fillers, hesitation devices (well...ah...)

96. prefabricated pat-

memorized stock phrases (where is the _________)

terns

97. circumlocution

describe or exemplify the object (the thing you open
bottle)

98. approximation

using alternative term (sailboat -> ship)

99.

foreignizing

use of L1 by adjusting it to L2 phonology

100. code-switching

use of L1 while speaking in L2

101. appeal for help

ask for correct term (what is this?)

102. appeal to authority

asking for aid either directly or indirectly - teacher or
dictionary

103. literal translation

a translation that approximates to a word for-word
representation of the original

104. word coinage

creating a nonexisting L2 word based on a sup-
posed rule

10 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

105. nonlinguistic signals mime, gesture, facial expression

106. acculturation model

L2 learning would occur more successfully in con-
texts which learners wished to integrate into the
target culture

107. Sapir-Whorf hypothe-

sis

a belief that each language imposes on its speaker
a particular worldview.

108. Critical period

109. Grammar Translation

Method

110. Direct Method

the period during which a child can acquire lan-
guage easily, rapidly, perfectly, and without instruc-
tion.

a method which makes use of translation and gram-
mar study as the main teaching and learning activ-
ities. A typical lesson consists of the presentation
of a grammatical rule, a study of lists of vocabulary,
and a translation exercise.

focuses on oral languages as it is used by na-
tive speakers, uses spontaneous conversations and
explanations based on classroom objectives and
events.

111. Audio-lingual Method (a) emphasizes the teaching of speaking and listen-

112. Community Language

Learning

ing before reading and writing (b) uses dialogues
and drills © discourages the use of the mother
tongue in the classroom (d) often makes use of
contrastive analysis.

an application of counselling learning. The method
places emphasis on the learners' personal feelings
and their reactions to language learning. Learner
say things which they want to talk about, in their
native language. The teacher (Counselor) translates
the learner's sentences into the foreign language,
and the learner then repeats this to other members
of the group.

113. Suggestopedia

11 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

114. Silent Way

115. Total Physical Re-

sponse

a method of foreign teaching which makes use of
dialogues, situations, and translation to present and
practice language, and in particular, makes use of
music, visual images, and relaxation exercises to
make learning more comfortable and effective.

A method of foreign-language teaching which
makes use of gesture, mime, visual aids, wall charts,
Cuisenaire rods that the teacher uses to help the
students to talk. The method takes its name from
the relative silence of the teacher using these tech-
niques.

a language teaching method in which items are
presented in the foreign language as orders, com-
mands, and instructions requiring a physical re-
sponse from the learner/ gives emphasis to compre-
hension

116. Audio-Motor Unit

logically sequenced commands on a single topic.

117. Natural Approach

118. Lexical Approach

119. Communicative Lan-
guage Teaching

a method emphasizes a. the use of the spoken lan-
guage b. the use of objects and actions in teaching
the meanings of words and structures c. the need
to make language teaching follow the natural princi-
ples of first language learning

an approach to language teaching that is based on
the view that the basic building blocks of teaching
and learning are words and lexical phrases, rather
than grammar, functions, or other units of the orga-
nization.

an approach which emphasizes that the goal of lan-
guage learning is communicative competence and
which seeks to make meaningful communication
and language use a focus of all classroom activities.
The major pricniples are: 1. learners use a lan-
guage through using it to communicate 2. authen-
tic and meaningful communication should be the

12 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

goal of classroom activities 3. fluency and accuracy
are both important goals in language learning 4.
communication involves the integration of different
language skills 5. learning is a process of creative
construction and involves trial and error

120. Task-based Instruc-

tion

a teaching approach based on the use of commu-
nicative and interactive tasks as the central units for
the planning and delivery of instruction.

121. PPP Model

122. Content-based In-

struction

123. immersion model

124. sheltered-language

instruction

the introduction of new items, when their meanings
are explained, demonstrated, etc., and other neces-
sary information is given -> new items are practiced,
either individually or in groups. Practice activities
usually move from controlled to less controlled prac-
tice -> students use the new items more freely, with
less or little control by the teacher.

a method that integrates language instruction with
subject matter instruction in the target language
through the medium of English in a content-based
ESL program.

a form of bilingual education and used to describe
programs which serve language majority students
and which use a second or foreign language to
teach at least 50% of the curriculum during the
elementary or secondary grades.

an approach to the teaching of second language
students based on the Canadian model of immer-
sion education, in which content is taught in English
and made comprehensible to the students by spe-
cial instructional techniques. The goal of approach is
to enable the students to acquire high levels of oral
English proficiency while at the same time achieving
in the content areas; to teach academic subject mat-
ter and language simultaneously until the student is
ready for mainstreaming.

13 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

125. adjunct model

an approach to Content Based Instruction in which
a language course is linked with a content course
in an academic area. Designed to give students the
language skills necessary for success in the content
course.

126. theme-based instruc-

tion

CBI weak version
Lg class is structured around *topics* or *themes*

e.g.) debate, research projects, simulation games
on specific topics

127. competency-based in-

struction

128. Flipped Learning

that which is traditionally done in class is now done
at home, and that which is traditionally done as
homework is now completed in class.

129. Target task

tasks that students must accomplish beyond the
classroom.

130. Pedagogical task

task that forms the nucleus of the classroom activity.

131. Interactant relation-

who holds the information(one-way/two-way)

ship

132. interaction require-

ment

whether the task requires participants to share infor-
mation or whether it is optional

133. goal orientation

134. convergent

135. divergent

whether the task requires participants within each
group to agree on a single outcome(convergent) or
allows them to disagree(divergent)

the task requires participants within each group to
agree on a single outcome

the task allows participants within each group to
disagree on the outcome

14 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

136. outcome options

the scope of the task outcomes available to the
participants in meeting the task goals

137. Product-oriented syl-

labus

the syllabus that focuses on the knowledge and
skills which Ss should gain as a result of the instruc-
tion

138. Structural syllabus

the syllabus based on the grammatical structures
graded according to complexity, which form the
basis of the grammar translation and audiolingual
methods.

139. Notional-Functional

syllabus

the syllabus based on the communicative purpos-
es for which we use language, and the conceptual
meanings

140. Situational syllabus

the syllabus which is organized around the language
needed for different situations, aimed at meaningful
conversational interchange in specific contexts.

141. Process-oriented syl-

labus

the syllabus that focuses on the learning experi-
ences themselves.

142. Content-based(topi-

cal) syllabus

the syllabus which is organized around themes, top-
ics, or other units of content

143. Task-based syllabus a syllabus which is organized around tasks, rather
than in terms of grammar, vocabulary or functions.

144. Synthetic syllabus

a syllabus based on the approach that learning is
additive, linear process

145. Analytic syllabus

a syllabus based on the approach that language can
be learned holistically, in chunks

146. facilitator/resource

the teacher creates a student-centered learning en-
vironment where the students engage in the class
actively with their own pace

147. organizer

15 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

148. controller

149. assessor

the teacher organizes students to get students in-
volved, engaged, and ready by giving them informa-
tion, guiding, grouping, organizing

the teacher controls student's learning by being in
charge of every moment in activities

the teacher offers feedback and correction, grades
students in various way, and indicates whether or
not students are getting their English right.

150. classroom manage-

ment

actions taken to create and maintain a learning en-
vironment conducive to successful instruction

151. back-channeling

(cues)

the provision of feedback to the speaker on how
their message is being received; acknowledgments
('Yeah', 'Mm-hm', 'Uh-huh'), news-marking items
('Oh', 'Really'), evaluative comments ('Wow', 'How
terrible!'); part of active listening in conversation

152. formality-awareness Aware of the formality(register) used for particular

social setting

153. register

the way that language use varies according to vari-
ations in the context. The choice of linguistic form
is not arbitrary but is governed by a configuration
of cultural and context factors such as the field of
discourse, the tenor, and the mode of discourse

154. elision (reduced form) leaving out a sound or sounds. It can make it difficult

155. Top-down

156. Bottom-up

for students to distinguish or recognize individual
words in the stream of speech.

to use background knowledge, the situation, con-
text, and topic to arrive at comprehension. / the use
of prior knowledge assists listeners in constructing
interpretations that are complete and meaningful

16 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

to decode individual sounds and words in the mes-
sage to derive meaning and to focus on linguistic
information more intensively

157. schematic knowledge background knowledge that includes factual/socio-

logical factors and procedural knowledge or how the
language is used in discourse

158. schema activation

to help Ss develop a schema that they can apply to
a subsequent listening task

159. content schemata

include general world knowledge, sociocultural
knowledge, and topic knowledge

160. formal schemata

161. predicting

162. inferencing

consist of knowledge(rhetorical, discourse struc-
ture) we have of the overall structure of some
speech events. (background knowledge about or-
ganizational forms and discourse, rhetorical struc-
tures)

It means they have to look over the task so they are
automatically engaging in this schema activation. It
also ensures that learners think about the task they
will attempt; thus, raising their task awareness.

a higher level listening skill. However, it is a mistake
to wait until learners are at an intermediate level
or above to begin working on it. Indeed, beginning
learners lack the large vocabulary and grammatical
knowledge that they will have later, so they need to
"listen between lines" at their level.

163. Note-taking

to listen and write down ideas from the text in short
form.

164. Product-oriented lis-

tening

"Listen to learn"
to focus on 'what was understood'/ to use what Ss
comprehend in listening to complete another lan-
guage activity(e.g. write a report and give a speech)

17 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

165. metacognitive aware-

ness

Ss increases their awareness about their LISTEN-
ING PROCESS and develop effective SKILLS for
self-regulating listening comprehension

166. Process-oriented lis-

tening

"Learn to listen"
to focus on how the understanding takes place*

167. Integrative learning

168. intensive listening

169. extensive listening

170. Monologue

171. Dialogue

The language skills of listening, speaking, reading
and writing are generally integrated rather than oc-
curring in isolation.

listen carefully in order to work on listening skills/ go
over a piece of material multiple times and often use
it for other purposes (for dictation to build vocabulary
and grammar)

listen to a lot of materials but not trying to get all the
details/ listen for pleasure, listen to large amount of
easy material.

One speaker uses spoken language for any length
of time.

Two or more speakers are involved. Subdivided into
transactional/interactional.

172. Transactional

The focus on content and conveying factual or
propositional information

173. Interactional

The establishment and maintenance of cordial so-
cial relationship

174. Interactive Process-

ing

Using a mixture of 'top-down' and 'bottom-up' pro-
cessing in order to decode meaning.

175. Listening Cloze

ü\ listening for specific informationü ð°(cid:24)´ Hx D°0 \Ù Ä‰

176. Information Transfer

Learners reproduce the message they hear in a new
form, for example, when they listen and respond

18 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

177. Jigsaw listening

178. Dictogloss

179. Monitoring

by ordering a set of pictures, completing a map,
drawing a picture or completing a table.

In each group, Ss listen to each different tape, all of
which are about the same thing. Ss have to assem-
ble all the facts by comparing the notes they took
while listening.

A classroom dictation activity where learners are
required to reconstruct a short text by listening and
noting down key words, which are then used as a
base for reconstruction.

It is important for learners to pay attention to what
they are understanding and what they are missing. It
focus on product(what was understood) rather than
process(how the understanding takes place).

180. Bottom-up process-

ing

makes use of the information present in the input to
achieve higher level meaning.

181. Sight words

learner relies on visual memory to match sound with
writing

182. Phonics approach

teaching sound-letter relationships to sound out or
decode (teaching individual letters of the alphabet
with their specific English pronunciation)

183. Linguistic approach

infer the letter-sound relationships

184. Basal approach

careful control of sequencing of the language

185. graded reader

186. basal reader

187. Top-down processing makes use of higher level non-sensory information
to predict or interpret lower level information that is
present in the data

19 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

188. The Language Experi-
ence Approach (LEA)

an approach used in the teaching of reading to
young children which draws on the experiences chil-
dren have in their personal lives as well as on the
language skills and vocabulary they have developed
outside the classroom.

189. Literature-based ap-

proach

an approach to read literature focusing on the mean-
ing

190. Whole language ap-

proach

191. Interactive process-

ing

192. Intensive reading

an approach to first language reading and writing
instruction that has been extended to middle and
secondary school levels to the teaching of SEL and
that views language as a "whole" entity.

a theory of reading comprehension that sees read-
ing as involving both the accurate and sequential
understanding of text based on identification of the
meanings of words and sentences in the text as
well as experiences, background information, and
predictions that the reader brings to the text.

students are taught reading skills, vocabulary, and
phonological instruction through short reading pas-
sage followed by reading comprehension exercise.

193. Extensive reading

reading many books for enjoyment or information
without focusing on classroom exercise.

194. Literal comprehen-

sion level

comprehension level to understand, remember, or
recall the information explicitly contained in a pas-
sage

195. Reorganization(rein-
terpretation) level

comprehension level to make reorganization or in-
terpretation of parts of the information in the text

196. Inferential level

197. Evaluative level

comprehension level to find intention which is not
explicitly stated in a passage, using the reader's
experience and intuition, and by inferring.

20 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

comprehension level to make the personal judgment
instead of accepting the author's intention.

198. Creative level

comprehension level that emotionally and aestheti-
cally sensitive to what he/she is reading.

199. Reconstruction activi-

ties

the original text is broken down and given to Ss
either in segments or as blocks of text with gaps.

200. Analysis activities

Ss select specific information from the text and then
represent it in a different form.

201. Text completion

predict deleted words, sentences, phrases.

(cloze)

202. Table completion

predict deleted items using table categories and text
as sources of reference.

203. Sequencing

predict the logical order for sequence or classi-
fy segments according to categories given by the
teacher.

204. Prediction

predict the next part of a text

205. Underlining

206. Segmenting

search for target words or phrases that relate to one
aspect of content

break text into meaning or information units and
label segments of text

207. Diagrammatic repre-

construct diagrams from text

sentation

208. Summary

produce headings and summarize information

209. Skimming

210. Scanning

the reader samples segments of a text in order to
achieve a general understanding of its meaning.

21 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

211. Inferencing

the reader wants to locate a particular piece of infor-
mation without necessarily understanding the rest of
a text or passage.

identify ideas that are not explicitly stated, look for
the clues in the text and use these clues to guess
about the text and about the writer's ideas.

212. Graphic organizer

a visual representation to show relationship among
ideas in a text

213. Outlining

distinguish and list the main ideas and supporting
details of a text, gives readers an organized repre-
sentation of the information in the text

214. Semantic mapping

(clustering)

grouping ideas into meaningful clusters, helps the
Ss to provide some order to the chaos.

215. semantic network

216. Critical reading

readers react critically to the text through relating
the content of the reading to personal standards,
values, attitudes, and belief.

217. SQ3R technique

Survey, Question, Read, Recite, Review

218. Metacognitive aware-

ness

the learning process where learners become aware
of their own mental processes which are involved in
different kinds of learning

219. Think-aloud protocol T encourages Ss to monitor their comprehension
process while reading. At the same time, they are
required to report on what they are doing and their
thought to the teacher.

220. Cohesion

text forming devices, words and phrases that en-
able the writer or speaker to establish relationships
across sentence and that help to tie the sentences
in a text together.

22 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

221. Coherence

the organization of discourse with all elements pre-
sent and fitting together logically

222. Discourse markers

223. One-way information

gap

a class of expressions consisting of words, phrases,
or clauses that serve to monitor or organize ongoing
discourse

one learner has some information that the other stu-
dent(s) don't have. By sharing the information, they
can solve the problem or accomplish the prescribed
task.

224. Passive vocabulary

You can listen and understand. Hearing the vocab-
ulary used prompts you to recall its meaning.

225. Active vocabulary

226. Reading as

a complex/interactive
process

Vocabulary that you can recall and use at will when
the situation requires it. You are choosing to use the
word and actively retrieving it from memory

in reading, an individual constructs meaning
through a transaction with written text -> interpret
the text, which is influenced by the reader's past ex-
perience, language background, cultural framework,
and the reader's purpose for reading.

227. Authentic material

language teaching materials which have the quali-
ties of natural speech or writing.

228. Integrated skills

developing several skills together

229. Personalization

allow Ss to apply something they have learned to
their own lives and to express their own ideas, feel-
ing, preferences and opinions

230. Argumentative dis-
course structure

structures that support a controversial point or de-
fend a position on which there is a difference of
opinion

231. fluency

23 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

232. accuracy

233. complexity

234. appropriateness

235. Jigsaw speaking

the ability to produce the L2 with native-like rapidity,
and without unnatural pausing, hesitation, or refor-
mulation

the ability to produce target-like and error-free lan-
guage

the ability to use a wide and varied range of so-
phisticated structures and vocabulary in the second
language

the degree to which your communication matches
situational, relational, and cultural expectations re-
garding how people should communicate

Ss have different information that is needed to put
together for the solution to a task. (two-way, interac-
tion required, convergent, closed)

236. Problem-solving ac-

tivity

Ss are given a problem and a set of information ->
must arrive a solution to the problem.

237. discussion

allows Ss critical thinking and quick decision mak-
ing. Ss can learn the polite way to present their own
opinions against opposite ones.

238. peer feedback

Feedback given to a learner by another learner in
the class.

239. transactional function for the purpose of conveying or exchanging specific

information.

240. interpersonal function for the purpose of maintaining social relationships

241. personalization

allow Ss to apply something they have learned to
their own lives and express their own ideas, feelings,
preferences, and opinions

242. information-gap activ-

ity

two or more Ss have access to different information
that they have to share in order to complete the task

24 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

=> more negotiation of meaning (more comprehen-
sion/ confirmation check)

243. reasoning-gap activi-

ty

to derive some new information by inferring it from
information they have been given

244. Opinion-gap tasks

245. noticing the gap

246. consciousness-rais-

ing

(¨à øù d„(cid:0) (cid:25)@ (cid:21)ô õ

vs jigsaw: d„(cid:0) ä äx (cid:21)ô õ )

e.g (cid:28)¸ => €° \èp¬ >0
info: flight schedule, railway station timetable ñ => \èp¬
(new info)

involve identifying and articulating a personal pref-
erence, feeling, or attitude in response to a given
situation.

The learner's REALIZING that the way he is saying
something in the target language *differs from* the
way native or proficient speakers say it.

Aimed at *raising awareness of the difference* be-
tween "what they can say" and "what they want to
say"

PERFORM -> OBSERVE -> RE-PERFORMANCE

to promote noticing and continued awareness of
the target form and situate the grammar structures
and elements in question with a broader discourse
context

247. segments

vowels and consonants

248. suprasegmen-

tal(prosody)

aspects of pronunciation which span more than one
segment or which are the property of stretches of
speech rather than individual sounds => stress, in-
tonation, length, tone

249. bottom-up

focuses on segmentals (phonemes), clear articula-
tion, and practicing minimal pairs

25 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

250. top-down

251. balanced view

252. minimal pairs

focuses on intonation, rhythm, stress. These fea-
tures can have an even greater impact on intelligi-
bility than the mispronunciation of sounds(segmen-
tals).

teaching both segmentals and suprasegmentals
within communicative contexts, focusing on intelligi-
bility

A pair of words that differ by only a single sound and
are recognized by speakers as different words. i.e.
bat/cat or hare/dare

253. register

speech type depending on the social relationship

254. meaningful drills

-Predicted response or limited set of possible re-
sponse
-Connected to some form of reality
-Requires Ss to convey meaning

T: Where was the Mercedes made, Hyungbin?
S1: It was made in Germany.
T: Good. Where was the Buick made, Gyoori?
S2: It was made in USA.
T: Right.

255. controlled processing conscious effort and attention is required to perform
a task. This places demands on short-term memory

256. automatic processing performance of a task without conscious or delib-

257. Role play

erate processing => make use of information in
long-term memory

the ideal way for practicing this language function,
which allows students to try out appropriate English
utterances in potentially difficult situations, before
they must use them in real life

258. mechanical drills

26 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

-predicted response
-no implied connection with reality
-aims at recognizing and memorizing the structure

259. communicative drills -open response(Ss provide their own content/ infor-

mation) => Ss' answers are unknown
-focus on communicative reality (requires conveying
meaning in the real world)

260. grammatical compe-

tence

the ability to recognize and produce the syntactic
and morphological structures of language

261. discourse compe-

tence

The ability to understand and produce contextual-
ized stretches of language in spoken or written texts,
which includes both cohesion and coherence.

262. strategic competence The ability to use language communication strate-
gies such as asking for help, paraphrasing, avoid-
ance.

263. sociolinguistic com-

petence

the ability to interpret the social meaning that lan-
guage conveys and to choose language that is so-
cially appropriate for communicative situations(reg-
ister)

264. PPP model

Presentation - Practice - Production

move from accuracy to fluency

To lead Ss *from controlled to automatic* use of new
language feature.

1. Presentation: a language item is presented
2. Practice: the target item is practiced in a CON-
TROLLED MANNER
3. Production: in free language production

265. Product-oriented ap-

proach

focus on the completed written product, the coher-
ent, error-free text

27 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

266. Process-oriented ap-

proach

go through stages of drafting and receiving feed-
back on their draft from peers/teacher, followed by
revisions of their evolving texts

267. Brainstorming

Ss think quickly without inhibition to produce as
many ideas as possible on a given topic.

268. Freewriting

269. Listing

270. Clustering

in a given time, Ss keep writing without stopping and
concerning for spelling, grammar, or punctuation.

Ss produce as lengthy a list as possible of all the
main ideas and subcategories that come to mind as
they think about the topic at hand.

a key word placed in a center of a page -> around
which Ss quickly jot down all of the free-associations
triggered by the subject matter, using words or short
phrases.

271. Drafting

Ss focus on fluency/ the development of ideas, the
organization of those ideas

272. Peer feedback

an activity in the revising stage of writing in which
students receive feedback about their writing from
other students - their peers.

273. Revising (Redrafting) Proofreading),Ss review on the basis of the feed-
back given in feedback stage, Ss improve global
content and organization of ideas + check language
error

274. Computer Assisted
Language Learning
(CALL)

275. Computer-Mediated
Communication
(CMC)

276.

the use of a computer in the teaching or learning of
a second or foreign language.

any communications that occur through the use of
two or more networked computers.

28 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

Computer-Adaptive
Test (CAT)

a test administered by computer in which the diffi-
culty level of the next item to be presented to test
takers is estimated on the basis of their responses to
previous items and adapted to match their abilities

277. Synchronous commu-

nication

278. Asynchronous com-

munication

279. Inquiry-based learn-

ing

communication that is instantaneous, with all par-
ticipants logged onto their computers and send-
ing messages in real time. Language classes often
use this type of communication in the form of In-
ternet chat, or with specialized programs such as
Daedalus interchange.

communication that is not instantaneous and can be
accessed and read by the recipient at a later time.
Language classes often use this type of communi-
cation in the form of bulletin boards or discussion
lists.

an approach to teaching and learning which is
based on the following principles:
1) learners develop processes associated with dis-
covery and inquiry by observing, inferring, formulat-
ing hypothesis, predicting and communicating
2) teachers use a teaching style which supports the
processes of discovery and inquiry
3) textbooks are not the sole resources for learning
4) conclusions are considered tentative and not for-
mal
5) learners are involved in planning, conducting,
and evalauting their own learning with the teacher
playing a supporting role.

280. Cooperative learning a general term for an approach to teaching and

learning which makes use of learners working to-
gether in small groups.

281. collaborative learning

282. Blended learning

the provision of learning opportunities through a
combination of several different forms of learning,

29 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

typically through a combination of technology-based
resources and conventional teacher or book-based
learning.

283. Corpus (pl. Corpora) a collection of naturally occuring samples of lan-

284. Concordance

285. Concordancer

guage which have been collected and collated for
easy access by researchers and materials develop-
ers who want to know how words and other linguistic
items are actually used.

a list of all the words which are used in a particular
text or in the works of a particular author, together
with a list of the contexts in which each word occurs/
have been used in te study of word frequencies,
grammar, discourse, and stylistics.

software that searches for words of phrases in a cor-
pus and displays the selected items in a list together
with their surrounding context.

286. Data-driven approach responsibility is placed on the learner to make their
own comparisons of the way in which target expres-
sions are used and thus to formulate rules on their
own.

287. Conferencing

288. Coherence

289. Cohesion

in teaching, a semi-structured face-to-face conver-
sation between a teacher and a student or a small
group of students in which work being undertaken is
discussed. The teacher gives feedback on progress,
suggested improvements.

the relationship which links the meaning of utter-
ances in a discourse or of the sentences in a text.

grammatical and lexical relationships between the
different elements of a text - between different sen-
tences or between different parts of a sentence

290. Cohesive devices

text forming devices which connect ideas across
sentences

30 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

291. Controlled writing

292. Guided writing

293. Free writing

294. Dicto-comp

295. Dialogue journals

296. Display writing

focus on specific features of written language, good
for reinforcing grammar, vocabulary, and syntax/ can
be aware of the conventions of written English

a technique for teaching writing where the teacher
provides detailed guidance in the form of questions,
an outline, a model, or some other way of focusing
and directing the students' writing. Guided writing
seeks to reduce the number of student errors and
to provide a specific focus on some aspect of either
the form or content of a piece of writing or both.

T gives only the title and Ss themselves decide on
the facts they should include and their arrangement
and expressions in some logical sequence.

a technique for practicing composition in language
class. A passage is read to a class, and then the
student must write out what they understand and
remember from the passage, keeping as closely to
the original as possible but using their own words
where necessary.

written or orally recorded discussions between stu-
dent and teachers in a writing programme, about
school-related or other topics of interest to student.
It may be used to develop writing skills, to enable
teachers to assess the value of a course or get
student feedback and to develop fluency in writing.

when the instructor may be the only reader and is
only interested in assessing the students' knowl-
edge.

297. Real writing

when the reader genuinely wants the information.

298. Contrastive rhetoric

the study of similarities and differences between
writing in a first and second language or between
two languages, in order to understand how writing

31 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

299. Mechanics

conventions in one language influence how a per-
son writes in another.

the conventions governing the technical aspects of
writing, including spelling, punctuation, capitaliza-
tion, and abbreviation.

300. deductive approach

The teacher presents the grammar rule and then
gives Ss exercises in which they apply the rule.

301. inductive approach

The teacher presents samples of language and the
Ss have to infer the rule.

302. consciousness-rais-

ing

The way that Ss become aware of features of the
language they are learning (promote noticing and
continued awareness of the target language)

303. input flooding

using materials that contain a lot of target items

304. input enhancement

305. enhanced input

306. input processing(pro-

cessing instruction)

Highlighting, boldfacing, or otherwise calling atten-
tion to certain target grammatical forms in a reading
text.

Input that is altered in an effort to make some lan-
guage features stand out more to learners.
Example: typographical enhancement (bold type or
underlining) or exaggerated stress in speaking.

push Ss to attend to properties of language during
activities where the structure is being used mean-
ingfully
It provides an elaboration on how learners achieve
'form' from the input and how they parse sentences
during the act of comprehension while their focal
attention is on meaning. The overall aim is to im-
prove learners' intake which is the input learners
actually comprehend in terms of form, function, and
meaning.

307. intake

32 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

308. rule-driven

The grammar rule is presented and the learner en-
gages with it through the study and manipulation of
examples.

309. data-driven

to treat language as data and students as re-
searchers infer the grammar rule

310. structured input

input that is manipulated in particular ways to push
Ss to become dependent on form and structure to
get meaning

311. structured input activ-

ities

312. form-meaning con-

nection(mapping)

313. Focus-on-form

314. Focus-on-formS

315. implicit knowledge
(procedural knowl-
edge)

316. explicit knowledge
(declarative knowl-
edge)

317. Information Gap

link between a lexical or grammatical form and its
meaning
ex) connection between "the inflectional suffix /ed/"
and "past time reference"

the teacher directs learners' attention briefly to lin-
guistic structure while the learners are engaged in a
meaningful activity

placing an emphasis on formal aspects of lan-
guage in the classroom by isolating them for practice
through exercises, rather than drawing attention to
forms through meaningful activities

information that is automatically and spontaneously
used in language tasks

to know 'about' the language, ability to articulate/
verbalize complex rules governing language

two or more Ss have access to different information
that they have to share in order to complete the task

33 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

318. CR task (Conscious-

ness Raising Task)

draw Ss' attention to a particular linguistic feature
through a range of inductive and deductive proce-
dures.
a pedagogic activity where the learners are provided
with second language data in some form and re-
quired to perform some operation on it, the purpose
of which is to arrive at an explicit understanding of
the target grammar. What learners should be able to
do is to find the rule and understand the target form
in terms of form, meaning, and function.

319. discovery learning

Teaching methods that enable students to discover
information by themselves or in groups.

320. automatization

The process by which information processing be-
comes effortless and highly efficient as a result of
continued practice or increased expertise.

321. proceduralization

The process by which declarative knowledge is con-
verted into procedural knowledge

322. personalization

increase the relevance of content in relation to Ss'
interests and needs

323. Garden Path Tech-

nique

324. Dictogloss

In order to encourage Ss to process the target
structure somewhat more deeply than they might
otherwise do, the task is set up to get Ss to overgen-
eralize. It thus leads them into error. They are giv-
en disconfirming evidence and then have to modify
their hypothesis.

A classroom dictation activity where learners are
required to reconstruct a short text including the
target form by listening and noting down key words,
which are then used as a base for reconstruction.

325. Semantic network

the associations of related words that come to mind
when a certain word is thought of

326.

34 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

Semantic mapping
(word map)

327. Guessing strategies

328. Word-family

a classroom technique in which a visual represen-
tation of ideas in a text or conceptual relationships
within a text is used to assist with the reading of a
text

examine the immediate context of the vocabulary
-> look at the rhetorical relation, punctuation, and
reference words -> use knowledge gained from such
clues to guess the meaning of the word

a family along with the definitions for each word; a
group of words that share the same base or root
but take different meanings; as for example, the
derivational set "act, action, active, actively, activate,
actor", "play, player, replay, playful", "looks, looking,
looked"

329. lexical chunks (=mul-

ti-word units)

groups of more than one word, such as 'bits and
pieces', 'do up', 'look for', can function as a mean-
ingful unit with a fixed or semi-fixed form

330. superordinates

more general meaning viewed in relation to oth-
er words of more specific meaning (hyponyms);
co-hyponyms share the same ranking in a hierarchy
e.g.) superordinate - 'building', hyponyms - 'house',
'school', 'factory', 'cinema', 'hotel'

331. homonyms

words that share the same form but have unrelated
meanings e.g.) 'well', 'bat', 'shed', 'fair'

332. Mnemonic device

333. keyword method

helps link a word form and its meaning and to
consolidate this linkage in memory (use similarity
between L1 and L2 + use visual image)

system of associating new words or concepts with
similar-sounding cue words and images; First, the
learner chooses an L1 or L2 word based on a
phonological or orthographic similarity with the L2
target word. Then a strong association between the
target word and the keyword must be constructed

35 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

334. Corpus

335. concordance

336. Concordancer

337. Concordancing

338. Lexical approach

so that, when seeing or hearing the target word,
the learner is reminded immediately of the keyword.
Finally, a visual image is constructed to combine the
referents of the keyword and the target word, making
it more memorable

a collection of naturally occurring samples of lan-
guage which have been collected and collated for
easy access by researchers and materials develop-
ers who want to know how words and other linguistic
items are actually used

a type of index that searches for occurrences of
a word or combinations of words, affixes, phrases,
or structures within a corpus, and can show the
immediate context

a piece of software that arrays the occurrences of a
given lexical items of expressions from a corpus of
language data in context so as to allow for compar-
ison of the usage of the item or expression

a process of looking at the relationship between
words to reveal rules about language use in the real
world

language consists not a traditional grammar and
vocabulary but often of multi-word pre-fabricated
chunks

339. Paradigmatic relation reflects the semantic choices at a particular struc-

ture point in a sentence -> antonymy, synonymy

340. Syntagmatic relation relations between words as they occur in se-

quences; words that co-occur with high frequency;
e.g.) 'a long road', 'a ripe banana', 'a savage dog';
collocations

341. Polysemy

a word that has multiple meanings that are related
conceptually or historically

36 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

342. Collocation

words that typically occur with, likelihood of co-oc-
currence between words

343. Multi-word units

a sequence of word forms which functions as a
single grammatical unit

344. High frequency word the words which T should take time and give atten-

tion to

345. Low frequency word the words which T should focus on the strategies for

dealing with

346. Incidental learning of

vocabulary

occurs when the mind is focused elsewhere, such
as on understanding a text or using language for
communicative purposes

347. Explicit instruction of

vocabulary

focuses attention directly on vocabulary to be
learned

348. Vocabulary depth

the quality, rather than the quantity, of words known

349. Vocabulary breadth

the number of words that a learner knows

350. Realia

351. Props

352. Visuals

actual objects and items which are brought into a
classroom as examples or as aids to be talked or
written about and used in teaching

theatrical aids to represent a role or situation (e.g. a
toy telephone for a lesson on phone numbers)

pictures, drawings, photos or images (e.g. pictures
of different vacations spots for a lesson on vaca-
tions)

353. reliability

precision as a measuring instrument

354. test reliability

the extent to which a test yields a consistent, repro-
ducible measure of performance

37 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

355. rater reliability

it occurs when human error, subjectivity, and bias
enter into the scoring process

356. inter-rater reliability measure of agreement among observers on how

they record and classify a particular event

357. intra-rater reliability

established if results are consistent when the same
person rates the test on more than one occasion

358. validity

the extent to which a test measures or predicts what
it is supposed to

359. content validity

360. face validity

361. construct validity

362. criterion validity

363. predictive validity

It is determined by checking the adequacy with
which the test samples the content or objectives of
the course or area being assessed.

It concerns about whether the test looks as if it is
measuring what it is supposed to measure. That is
the look of a test can influence the test taker.

the degree to which scores on an assessment in-
strument permit inferences about underlying traits.
It examines whether the test is a true reflection of
the theory of the trait being measured.

The extent to which the "criterion" of the test has
actually been reached. In the case of teacher-made
classroom assessments, the related evidence is
best demonstrated through a comparison of results
of an assessment with results of some other mea-
sure of the same criterion. It consists of concurrent
validity and predictive validity.

There is a time gap between the administration of
the newly developed test and the criterion test, and
sometimes the criterion is not necessarily a test.

364. concurrent validity

both the newly developed test and the criterion test
are administered at the same time to a group of test

38 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

takers and the scores obtained on both tests are
correlated.

365. authenticity

The extent to which the tasks required on a given
test are similar to normal "real life" language use.

366. Washback effect

A facet of consequential validity is the effect of test-
ing on teaching and learning. It provides the infor-
mation with students in the form of useful diagnoses
of strengths and weaknesses.

367. practicality

the assessment takes a responsible amount of time
and resources to both create and administer.

368. interactiveness

the extent and type of involvement of the test tak-
er's individual characteristics in accomplishing a test
task

369. discrete-point test

A test that attempts to measure knowledge of a
single aspect of language use.

370. integrative test

A test of various aspects of systems or skills at the
same time

371. achievement test

372. Standardized test

related directly to classroom lessons; limited to par-
ticular material covered in a curriculum; determine
acquisition of course objectives at the end of a peri-
od of instruction

Test developed by test-construction experts and
published for use in many different schools and
classrooms.

373. placement test

A test done to place a student in the correct lev-
el/class at the start of a course

374. aptitude test

it is used to measure a person's capacity or general
ability to learn a foreign language and to be success-
ful in that undertaking.

39 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

375. proficiency test

376. diagnostic test

377. criterion-referenced

a test that predicts a person's future success in
language learning.

it is used to measure how suitable candidates will be
for performing a certain task or following a specific
course. ex) TOEFL

A test that helps the teacher to determine students
areas of weakness. It helps to identify specific ar-
eas, skills or knowledge that are problems for the
student.

A test designed to indicate how an individual per-
forms in comparison to a pre-established accept-
able criterion, rather than the performance of other
students.

378. norm-referenced

tase-taker's score is interpreted in relation to a
mean, medium, standard deviation, and/or per-
centile rank (place test-takers in rank order)

379. constructed response

items

380. summative assess-

ment

A type of test item or task that requires test takers to
a series of OPEN-ENDED QUESTIONS by writing,
speaking, or doing something rather than choose an
answer

Assessment data collected after instruction to evalu-
ate a student's mastery of the curriculum objectives
and a teacher's effectiveness at instructional deliv-
ery.

381. formative assessment Assessment used throughout teaching of a lesson
and/or unit to gauge students' understanding and
inform and guide teaching

382. Performance-based

assessment

An alternative assessment method based on a stu-
dent's performance of a skill based on a real-life
situation.

383. item discrimination

40 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

the extent to which an item differentiates between
high and low ability test takers.

384. item facility

the extent to which an item is easy or difficult for the
proposed group of test-takers

385. internal consistency

an assessment of how reliably test items that are
designed to measure the same construct actually do
so.
It measures whether several items that propose to
measure the same general construct produce simi-
lar scores.

386. stem

387. distracte(o)r

388. analytic scoring

389. holistic scoring

390. cloze test

391. c-test

an alternative choice which is intended to attract
students who do not know the right answer(rather
than to mislead students who do know the right
answer.)

it refers to using rating scale in which each category
of concern is rated separately (e.g., essay is rated
in terms of rhetorical organization, coherence, con-
tent, mechanics, grammar, vocabulary)

it uses a variety of criteria to produce a single score
(A scoring procedure in which the reader reacts to
Ss composition as a whole)

A test of reading ability that requires students to fill
in missing words in a text.

A type of gap-filling task in which the second half of
certain words are deleted. The frequency of deletion
can be as high as every second word.

392. fixed-ratio deletion

In cloze test

Every nth word is deleted

41 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

393. rational deletion

In cloze test

394. exact word method

According to the grammatical or discourse function
of the words, they are deleted

High washback, high expectancy grammar(=ability
to predict the next item)

the completion is counted as correct as long as it is
exactly the same as the original word being deleted
from the text. => high practicality (quick scoring),
high reliability

395. acceptable word

method

(=appropriate word method) any word that is gram-
matically correct and that makes good sense in the
context. => more time, but high face validity.

396. scoring reliability

the extent to which two different scores report the
same score for the subject

397. direct testing

it involves the test-taker in actually performing the
target task.

398. indirect testing

Ss are not performing the task itself but rather a task
that is related in some way

399. Needs analysis

400. Portfolio

401. Journals (dialogue

journals)

the process of determining the needs for which a
learner or group of learners requires a language and
arranging the needs according to priorities

A purposeful collection of Ss' work that demon-
strates their efforts, progress, and achievements in
given areas.

Written conversation between T and Ss over a pe-
riod of time on topics that are of special interest to
them. => little attention to structure, form, or correct-
ness.

402. Conference

42 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

one-on-one interaction between T and S. a dialogue
that is not to be graded.

403. selected-response

items

requires test takers to choose answers from a
ready-made list rather than providing an answer

404. self assessment

405. peer assessment

checking one's own performance on a language
learning task after it has been completed or check-
ing one's own success in using a language.

an activity in the revising stage of writing in which
students receive feedback about their writing from
other students - their peers.

406. informal assessment Assessment that results from a teacher's sponta-

neous, day-to-day observations of how students be-
have and perform in class.

407. formal assessment

Pre-planned, systematic attempt to ascertain what
students have learned.

408. Authentic materials

409. Extending

a stretch of oral language, produced a real speaker
or writer for a real audience and designed to convey
a real message of some sort

the teacher supplies more of the same type of ma-
terial, this making a quantitative change in the ma-
terial.

410. Expanding

adds something different to the materials; the
change is qualitative.

411. Subtracting

reducing the length of materials in quantitative way.

412. Abridging

413. Rewriting

omitting materials qualitatively, making the changes
greater than subtracting.

an internal change that can be applied to any aspect
of content

43 / 44

Keyterm Chap. 1-10
https://quizlet.com/_cbihm9Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

414. Restructuring

a change in classroom management to be suited for
the learning situation

415. External evaluation

to obtain a general impression of the material;
wide-ranging but relatively superficial

416. Internal evaluation

go beneath the publisher's and author's claims to
look at; the in-depth method

44 / 44

