TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

1.

achievement test an instrument used to determine whether course objec-
tives have been met - and appropriate knowledge and
skills acquired - by the end of a given period of instruction

2.

action research the systematic investigation of an issue, problem, or ped-

agogical question in a "live" classroom setting with stu-
dents, and reporting on the findings of the investigation

3.

adjunct model

(of content-based language teaching) linking sub-
ject-matter teachers and language teachers in con-
tent-based courses

4.

agency

a person's ability to make choices, take control, self-reg-
ulate, and thereby pursue goals as an individual, leading
potentially to personal or social transformation

5. Audiolingual
Method (ALM)

a language teaching method that emphasized oral pro-
duction, pattern drills, and conditioning through repetition

6.

authenticity

(of a test) the degree of correspondence of the character-
istics of a given language test task to the features of the
actual target language task

7.

automaticity

the act of processing input and giving output without
deliberation or hesitation in real-time speed

8.

autonomy

individual effort and action through which learners initiate
language, problem solving strategic action, and the gen-
eration of linguistic input

9.

bottom-up pro-
cessing

a focus on the "bits and pieces" of language, breaking
language into component parts and giving them central
focus, eventually working toward meaning

10. brainstorming

open-ended, rapid-fire voluntary oral or written listing of
ideas with no debate or evaluation by others

11. CALL (Comput-
er Assisted Lan-
guage Learning)

the subfield of applied linguistics concerned with the use
of computers for teaching and learning a second lan-
guage

1 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

12. collaboration

the process of learners working together (as opposed to
individually) with their classmates in reaching goals of a
task, solving problems, practicing language, etc.

13. collocation

a sequence of words or terms that co-occur more often
than would be expected by chance, such as "iron will,"
"zero tolerance," and "sugar and cream"

14. communicative
competence
(CC)

the cluster of abilities that enable humans to convey and
interpret messages and to negotiate meanings interper-
sonally within specific contexts

15. Communicative
Language
Teaching (CLT)

an approach to language teaching methodology that
emphasizes authenticity, interaction, student-centered
learning, task-based activities, and communication for
real-world, meaningful purposes

16. computer-mediat-

ed
communication
(CMC)

communication through the use of two or more electron-
ic devices such as computers, tablet PCs, and smart
phones. Commonly used formats are e-mail, video, audio,
or text chatting supported by social software (applica-
tions)

17. concordancing

indexing of words that enables one to reference words
in the multiple possible contexts in which they appear in
spoken or written language

18. conscious-

ness-raising

drawing students' attention to formal elements of lan-
guage within the context of meaningful communication
and tasks

19. construct validi-

ty

(of a test) the extent to which a test actually taps into the
theoretical construct that it proposes to assess

20. content schema-

ta

what we know about people, the world, culture, and the
universe

21. content validity
(of a test)

the extent to which test tasks actually sample the subject
matter about which conclusions are to be drawn

2 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

22. content-based
language
teaching (CBLT)

an umbrella term for a multifaceted approach to L2 lan-
guage teaching that integrates language teaching aims
with content instruction

23. contrastive
rhetoric

L1 schemata and patterns of thinking and writing can
carry over into L2 writing (see intercultural rhetoric)

24. controlled writ-

ing

teachers typically present a short text to students in which
they must alter a given structure throughout (e.g., convert
present to past tense)

25. cooperative
learning

model of education in which students work together in
pairs and groups, share information, and come to each
other's aid, as opposed to teacher-centered instruction
(see learner-centered instruction)

26. corpora

plural of corpus (see corpus linguistics)

27. corpus linguis-

tics

an approach to linguistic research that relies on comput-
er analyses of a collection, or corpus, of texts-written,
transcribed speech, or both-stored in electronic form and
analyzed with digital software

28. corpus-based
teaching

using corpora to inform curriculum and lesson designs
(see corpus linguistics)

29. criterion-refer-
enced test

designed to give test-takers feedback on specific course
or lesson objectives

30. diagnostic test

an assessment instrument designed to analyze strengths
and weaknesses in terms of grammar, pronunciation,
fluency, discourse, or other targeted linguistic features

31. dialogue journal a student records thoughts, feelings, and reactions and
an instructor reads and responds

32. dictocomp

a paragraph is read at normal speed 2-3 times, then
students rewrite the paragraph to the best of their recol-
lection

3 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

33. discovery learn-

ing

the concept that when learners are spurred to induce
language or other content, as opposed to being told by
the teacher, greater retention results

34. discrete point

testing

assessment on the assumption that language could be
broken down into its component parts and those parts
adequately tested

35. display question an attempt to elicit information already known by the

teacher

36. display writing

primarily for the display of a student's knowledge, as
opposed to real writing

37. experiential
learning

instruction that highlights giving students concrete expe-
riences in which they must use language in order to fulfill
the objectives of a lesson

38. extensive read-

ing

the process of achieving a general understanding of a
relatively long text (book, long article, or essay, etc.)

39. extrinsic motiva-

tion

choices made and effort expended on activities in antici-
pation of a reward from outside and beyond the self

40.

face validity

(of a test) the extent to which a test, on the "face" of it,
appears from the learner's perspective to test what it is
designed to test

41.

fluency

the unfettered flow of language production or comprehen-
sion, usually without focal attention on language forms

42.

focus on form
(FonF)

an approach that attempts to induce learners' inciden-
tal learning by drawing their attention to target forms
while they are engaged in communicative activities (see
form-focused instruction)

43.

form-focused in-
struction (FFI)

any planned or incidental instructional activity that is in-
tended to include language learners to pay attention to
linguistic form

4 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

44.

formal assess-
ment

deliberate, planned assessment using scoring and grad-
ing criteria and usally with conventionalized feedback

45.

formal schemata knowledge about language and discourse structure

46.

formative as-
sessment

ongoing informal evaluation serving the purpose of facili-
tating improvement in a student's performance

47.

freewriting

writing simply to start the "flow" of writing, with little
thought to grammaticality, spelling, logical thinking, or
organization

48. Functional Syl-

see Notional-Functional Syllabus

labus

49. genre-based
pedagogy

a focus on discipline-specific genres, such as laboratory
reports, travel brochures, financial reports, essays, or
newspaper articles

50. Grammar Trans-

lation Method

a language teaching method in which the central focus is
on grammatical rules, paradigms, and vocabulary memo-
rization as the basis for translating from one language to
another

51. guided writing

teachers provide a series of stimulators (e.g., asking stu-
dents a series of questions), which enables them to tell a
story just viewed on a videotape

52. haptics

any form of nonverbal communication involving touch,
also known as kinesthetics

53.

immersion

educational model that typically provides the majority of
subject-matter content through the medium of the L2

54.

55.

incidental learn-
ing

acquisition without intention to learn or focal awareness of
elements of language, as opposed to intentional learning

informal assess-
ment

incidental, unplanned evaluation usually embedded in
classroom tasks, and usually designed to elicit improved
performance (see formal assessment)

5 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

56.

input enhance-
ment

highlighting, boldfacing, or otherwise calling attention to
certain target grammatical forms in a reading text

57.

input hypothesis the claim that linguistic input is sufficient for L2 acquisition

58.

instrumental ori-
entation

acquiring a language as a means for attaining instru-
mental goals, such as acquiring a degree or certificate
in an academic institution, furthering a career, reading
technical material, translation, etc.

59.

integrative orien-
tation

learning a language in order to integrate oneself into the
culture of a second language group and become involved
in social interchange in that group

60.

integrative test-
ing

a view of testing that incorporated the whole of a commu-
nicative event, considered to be greater than the sum of
its linguistic elements

61.

62.

63.

intensive read-
ing

usually a classroom-oriented activity in which students
focus on the linguistic or semantic details of a passage

intentional learn-
ing

interaction hy-
pothesis

see explicit (treatment of form)

the claim that language competence is the result not only
of input, but also of interaction between a learner's input
and output

64.

Intercultural
competence

Ability to understand, empathize with, and/or function in
a culture or cultures other than one's culture.

65.

Interference

Negative transfer in which a previous item is incorrectly
transferred or incorrectly associated with an item to be
learned.

66.

Interlanguage

Learner language that emphasizes the separateness of
a second language learner's system, a system that has
a structurally intermediate status between the native and
target languages.

6 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

67.

68.

Interlingual
transfer

Intralingual
transfer

The effect of one language on another

The effect of forms, patterns, and discourse conventions
of one language (usually the L2) on other forms, patterns,
and discourse conventions within the same language

69.

Intrinsic motiva-
tion

Choices made and effort expended on activities for which
there is no apparent reward except the activity itself

70. Languaculture

The inseparability of language and culture; the "langua"
is about discourse, not just about words and sentences,
and the "culture" is about meanings that include, but go
well beyond, what the dictionary and grammar offer

71. Language Expe-
rience Approach
(LEA)

An integrated-skills approach initially used in teaching
native language reading skills, but more recently adapted
to second language learning contents

72. Learner-cen-

tered instruction

Model of education with a focus on learners' needs and
goals and individual differences in a supportive atmos-
phere that offers students choices and some control

73. Learning style

Cognitive, affective, and physiological traits that are rela-
tively stable indicators of how learners perceive, interact
with, and respond to the learning environment

74. Lexical Ap-
proach

A language teaching method that emphasized the impor-
tance of words (vocabulary) in SLA

75. MALL (Mobile
Assisted Lan-
guage Learning)

The use of mobile technologies (e.g., smart phones,
tablets) for language learning, especially in situations
where device portability offers particular advantages

76. Meaningful drills Techniques with a predicted or a limited set of possible

responses relating to some form of reality

77. Meaningful
learning

Anchoring and relating new items and experiences to
knowledge that exists in the cognitive framework

7 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

78. Mechanical drills Techniques that require only one correct response from a

students without connection with reality

79. Natural Ap-
proach

A language teaching method that stimulates child lan-
guage acquisition by emphasizing communication, com-
prehensible input, kinesthetic activities, and virtually no
grammatical analysis

80. Needs assess-
ment (0œ: needs
analysis)

A systematic process for determining and addressing
needs, overall purposes, or "gaps" that the course is
intended to fill, and the opinions of both course designers
and students about their reasons for developing/taking
the course

81. Norm-refer-

enced test

Instrument in which each test-taker's score is interpreted
in relation to a mean, median, standard deviation, and/or
percentile rank

82. noticing

The learner's paying attention to specific linguistic fea-
tures in input

83. Notional-Func-
tional Syllabus

A language course that attends primarily to functions as
organizing elements of a foreign language curriculum

84. overgeneraliza-

tion

The process of generalizing a particular rule or item in
the second language, irrespective of the native language,
beyond conventional rules or boundaries

85. Pedagogical

tasks

Any of a sequence of techniques designed ultimately to
teach students to perform the target task

86. Perfor-

mance-based
assessment

87. Placement test

88.

The test taker (or classroom student) must engage in
actual performance of the specified linguistic objective

An assessment instrument specifically designed to de-
termine test takers' levels of ability among two or more
course levels in an educational program

8 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

Practicality (of a
test)

extent to which an instrument is within desirable financial
limitations, time constraints, and ease of administration,
scoring, and interpretation

89. Proficiency test An assessment of one's general language ability, irre-

spective of any one course or curriculum

90. Project-based
learning

91. Real writing

See experiential learning

The reader does not know the answer (to a question or
problem) and genuinely wants information, as opposed to
display writing

92. Referential ques-

Request for information not known by the questioner

tion

93. Reliability (of a

test)

the consistency and dependability of an assessment in-
strument

94. Role-play

Giving a role to one or more members of a group and
assigning an objective or purpose that participants must
accomplish

95. rubric rubrics

Specified categories, which break down a skill into several
components, for scoring or evaluating language perfor-
mance

96. scaffolding

The process of supporting learners' progression toward
goals by providing hints, clues, reminders, examples,
steps to solving a problem, encouragement, and other
aids

97. scanning

Quickly searching for a particular piece or pieces of infor-
mation in a text

98. Schema theory

The concept that information is stored In long-term mem-
ory in networks of connected facts, concepts, and struc-
tures, which learners bring to bear on comprehension and
production of language

9 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

99. Self-regulation Deliberate goal-directed attempts to manage and control

efforts to learn the L2

100. Semantic map-

ping

Grouping ideas from a text into meaningful clusters, con-
necting those clusters in a visual diagram

101. Sheltered-lan-

guage
instruction

The deliberate separation of L2 students from native
speakers of the target language for the purpose of content
instruction

102. Theme-based In-

struction

An organizing framework for a language course that tran-
scends formal or structural requirements in a curriculum
and focuses on meaningful topics as organizing elements
of units and lessons

103. Competen-

cy-based
Instruction

104. simulations

Group role-plays or games in which characters and/or
situations are assigned in advance to students(players),
with the task of acting out the situation

105. skimming

Quickly running one's eyes across a whole text (such as
an essay, article, or chapter) for its gist

106. SQ3R

A pedagogical set of procedures for approaching a read-
ing text involving (in sequential order): survey, question,
read, recite, review

107. Strate-

gies-based
instruction (SBI)

Teaching learners with an emphasis on the strategic op-
tions that are available for leaning; usually implying the
teacher's facilitating awareness of those options in the
learner and encouraging strategic action

108. strategy

A specific method or technique for approaching a problem
or task; a mode of operation for achieving a particular end;
a planned design for controlling and manipulating certain
information

10 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

109. styles

Consistent and enduring tendencies or preferences with-
in an individual; general characteristics of intellectual and
emotional functioning that differentiate one person from
another

110. Suggestopedia A language teaching method that contended that the

human brain could process great quantities of material in
a (suggested) state of relaxation and yielding control to
the teacher

111. Summative as-
sessment

Evaluation of the final products, performances, and usu-
ally end-of-course or end-of-unit overall evaluation

112. syllabus

A curriculum; also specifications of topics, forms, assign-
ments, and schedules for completion of a course

113. Target tasks

Uses of language in the world beyond the classroom that
become the focus of classroom instruction

114. Task-Based Lan-
guage Teaching
(TBLT)

115. Teacher-cen-

tered instruction

An approach to language instruction that focuses on tasks
(see task)

The teacher controls everything; students speak only
when asked to; the teacher is an authority who is not to
be questioned

116. Top-down pro-

cessing

Activation of schemata to deriving meaning, global under-
standing, and interpretation of a text

117. Topic based

See theme-based instruction

118. Total Physical

Response (TPR)

A language teaching method relying on physical or kines-
thetic movement accompanied by language practice

119. Transactional di-

alogue

Two or more speakers' exchange to convey propositional
or factual information

120. transfer

The carryover of previous performance or knowledge to
previous or subsequent learning

11 / 12

TBP Glossary
https://quizlet.com/_bvrjlbÐ(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

121. Validity (of a test) The degree to which a test actually measures what it is

intended to measure

122. washback

The effects, both beneficial and detrimental, of an as-
sessment on teaching and learning prior to and after the
assessment itselt

123. Whole language

approach

An emphasis on the interconnections between oral and
written language and the integration of all four skills

124. Willingness to
communicate
(WTC)

A state of readiness to engage in the L2, the culmination
of processes that prepare the learner to initiate L2 com-
munication with a specific person at a specific time

125. Zone of proxi-

mal development
(ZPD)

The distance between a learner's existing developmental
state and his or her potential development

12 / 12

