PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

1.

acculturation

the process of adjusting and adapting to a new culture,
usually when one is living in the new culture, and often
with the resultant creation of a new Cultural identity

2.

affective filter

a condition of low anxiety and non-defensiveness that
permits one to acquire a language

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

ambiguity intol-
erance

a style in which an individual is relatively ill-equipped
to withstand or manage a high degree of uncertainty in
a linguistic context, and as a result may demand more
certainty and structure

ambiguity toler-
ance

a style in which an individual is relatively well suited to
withstand or manage a high degree of uncertainty in a
linguistic context

amotivation

the absence of any motivation entirely

anomie

feelings of social uncertainty, dissatisfaction, or "home-
lessness" as individuals lose some of the bonds of a
native culture but are not yet fully acculturated in the new
culture

appeal to author-
ity

a direct appeal for help from a more proficient user of the
language

8.

artifacts

in nonverbal communication, factors external to a person,
such as clothing and ornamentation, and their effect on
communication

9. Audiolingual
Method (ALM)

a language teaching method, popular in the 1950s, that
placed an extremely strong emphasis on oral production,
pattern drills, and conditioning through repetition

10. auditory learning

style

the tendency to prefer listening to lectures and audio-
tapes, as opposed to visual and/or kinesthetic processing

11. authentic (refer-
ring to pronunci-
ation)

oral production judged by a speech community to be
correct, native or native-like, and appropriate within that
speech community

1 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

12. authenticity

a principle emphasizing real-world, meaningful language
used for genuine communicative purposes

13. automatic
processes

relatively permanent cognitive efforts, as opposed to con-
trolled processes

14. automaticity

the act of processing input and giving output without
deliberation or hesitation in real-time speed

15. autonomy

16. avoidance

individual effort and action through which learners initiate
language, problem solving, strategic action, and the gen-
eration of linguistic input

(of a topic) in a conversation, steering others away from
an unwanted topic; (of a language form) a strategy that
leads to refraining from producing a form that speaker
may not know, often through an alternative form; as a
strategy, options intended to prevent the production of
ill-formed utterances, classified into such categories as
syntactic, lexical, phonological, and topic avoidance

17. awareness

cognizance of linguistic, mental, or emotional factors
through attention and focus; conscious attention

18. awareness-rais-

ing

usually, in foreign language classes, calling a learner's
attention to linguistic factors that may not otherwise be
noticed

19. backsliding

20.

turn-taking

(in learner language) a phenomenon in which the learner
seems to have grasped a rule or principle and then re-
gresses to a previous stage

in a conversation, conventions in which participants allow
appropriate opportunities for others to talk, or "take the
floor"

21. uptake

a student utterance that immediately follows a teacher's
feedback and that constitutes a reaction in some way to

2 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

the teacher's intention to draw attention to some aspect
of the student's initial utterance

22. U-shaped learn-

ing

the phenomenon of moving from a correct form to an
incorrect form and than back to correctness

23. visual learning

style

the tendency to prefer reading and studying charts, draw-
ings, and other graphic information

24. willingness to
communicate
(WTC)

an underlying continuum representing the predisposition
toward or away from communicating, given the choice

25. world Englishes varieties of English spoken and written in many different

countries, especially those not in the traditional "inner
circle"

26. zone of proxi-

mal development
(ZPD)

the distance between a learner's existing developmental
state and his or her potential development

27. socioaffective
strategies

strategic options relating to social-mediating activity and
interacting with others

28. sociocultural-in-
teractive (S-I)
strategy

one of three categories of metastrategy, strategies and
tactics that help the learners to interact and communicate,
to compensate for knowledge gaps, and to deal effectively
with culture

29. sociolinguistic
competence

ability to use or apply sociocultural rules of discourse in a
language

30. sociopragmatics the interface between pragmatics and social organization

31. speech acts

communicative behaviors used systematically to accom-
plish particular purposes

32. stabilization

see postsystematic stage, and fossilization

33. state anxiety

3 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

34. strategic compe-

tence

a relatively temporary feeling of worry experienced in
relation to some particular event or act, as opposed to
trait anxiety

(according to Canale& Swain) the ability to use strategies
to compensate for imperfect knowledge of rules or per-
formance limitations; (according to Bachman) the ability
to assess a communicative context and plan and execute
production responses to accomplish intended purposes

35. strate-

gies-based
instruction (SBI)

teaching learners with an emphasis on the strategic op-
tions that are available for learning; usually implying the
teacher's facilitating awareness of those options in the
learner and encouraging strategic action

36. structural syl-

labus

a language course that attends primarily to forms (gram-
mar, phonology, lexicon) as organizing elements of a
foreign language curriculum, as opposed to a functional
syllabus

37. styles

(in speech discourse) conventions for selecting words,
phrases, discourse, and nonverbal language in specified
contexts, such as intimate, casual, and consultative styles

38. subsumption

the process of relating and anchoring new material to
relevant established entities in cognitive structure (see
meaningful learning)

39.

target tasks

uses of language in the world beyond the classroom

40.

41.

42.

task-based in-
struction

an approach to language teaching that focuses on tasks
(see task)

topic clarifica-
tion

in a conversation, asking questions to remove perceived
ambiguities in another's utterance

topic develop-
ment

maintaining a topic in a conversation

43.

topic nomination proposing a topic for discussion in a conversation

4 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

44. Total Physical

Response (TPR)

a language teaching method relying on physical or kines-
thetic movement accompanied by language practice

45.

trait anxiety

a relatively permanent predisposition to be anxious about
a number of things, as opposed to state anxiety

46.

transfer

the carryover of previous performance or knowledge to
previous or subsequent learning

47. postsystematic

stage

a stage in which the learner has relatively few errors
and mastered the system to the point that fluency and
intended meanings are not problematic; stabilization

48. pragmalinguistic the intersection of pragmatics and linguistic forms

49. pragmatic com-

petence

the ability to produce and comprehend functional sociolin-
guistic aspects of language; illocutionary competence

50. pragmatics

conventions for conveying and interpreting the meaning
of linguistic strings within their contexts and settings

51. prefabricated
patterns

memorized chunks of language—words, phrases, short
sentences—the component parts of which the speaker is
unaware

52. presystematic

error

an error in which the learner is only vaguely aware that
there some systematic order to a particular class of items;
random error

53. procedural
knowledge

implicitly known knowledge that is incidentally available
but not consciously verbalizable

54. prompt

see elicitation(a corrective technique that prompts the
learner to self-correct)

55. proxemics

in nonverbal communication, conventions for acceptable
physical distance between persons

56. recast

5 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

an implicit type of corrective feedback that reformulates
or expands an ill-formed or incomplete utterance in an
unobtrusive way

57. reflective style

the tendency to take a relatively long time to make a
decision or solve a problem, sometimes in order to weigh
options before making a decision

58. register

a set of language variants commonly identified by certain
phonological features, vocabulary, idioms, and/or other
expressions that are associated with an occupational so-
cioeconomic group

59. reinforcement

in behavioral learning theory, events or stimuli that follow
a response or behavior that serve to reward the response
or behavior

60. repair

61. repetition

62. restructuring

correction by the learner of an ill-formed utterance, either
through self-initiated repair, or in response to feedback

(in error treatment) the sequential reiteration of an
ill-formed part of a student's utterance by a teacher; re-
iteration by a student of the correct form as a result of
teacher feedback, sometimes including incorporation of
the correct form in a longer utterance

process by which the components of a task are coordinat-
ed, integrated, or reorganized into new units, thereby al-
lowing old components to be replaced by a more efficient
procedure

63. retroactive inhi-

bition

failure to retain material because of interfering effects
of similar material learned after the learning task, as
opposed to proactive inhibition

64. risk taking

willingness to gamble, to try out hunches about a lan-
guage with the possibility of being wrong

65. rote learning

6 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

the process of mentally storing facts, ideas, or feelings
having little or no association with existing cognitive struc-
ture

66. saliency

the importance of a perceived element of input

67. self-efficacy

belief in one's own capabilities to successfully perform an
activity

68. self-esteem

69. self-regulation

70. Series Method

self-appraisal, self-confidence, knowledge of oneself,
usually categorized into global (overall), situational/spe-
cific (in a general context), and task (particular activities
within a context) self-esteem

deliberate, self-stimulated, goal-directed management,
control, and application of cognitive, affective, and socio-
cultural-interactive strategies to aid in learning a foreign
language

language teaching method created by Gouin,in which
learners practiced a number of connected "series" of
sentences, which together formed a meaningful story or
sequence of events

71. situated learning within communities of practice, pedagogy that is tailored

for a particular group of learners in a particular context

72. social construc-

tivism

a branch of constructivism that emphasizes the impor-
tance of social interaction and cooperative learning in
constructing both cognitive and emotional images of re-
ality

73. social distance

the cognitive and affective proximity of two cultures that
come into contact within an individual

74. modified interac-

tion

the various modifications that native speakers and other
interlocutors create in order to render their input compre-
hensible to learners, similar
Krashen's comprehensible input

7 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

75. monitor hypothe-

sis

in Krashen's theory, the assumption of the existence of
a device for "watchdogging" one's output, for editing and
making alterations or corrections

76. motivation

77. nativist

78. nativization

79. Natural Ap-
proach

the anticipation of reward, whether internally or externally
administered; choices made about goals to pursue and
the effort exerted in their completion

a school of thought that rests on the assertion that lan-
guage acquisition is innately (genetically) determined,
and that human beings are therefore predisposed to a
systematic perception of language

indigenization of a language; what was once a second
language in a culture evolves into a language accepted
as "native" le input, or standard

a language teaching method that stimulates child lan-
guage acquisition by emphasizing communication, com-
prehensible input, kinesthetic activities, and virtually no
grammatical analysis

80. noticing

the learner's paying attention to specific linguistic features
in input

81. notional-func-
tional syllabus

a language course that attends primarily to functions as
organizing elements of foreign language curriculum

82. oculesics

83. olfactory

nonverbal communication involving eye contact and eye
"gestures" to signal meaning

pertaining to one's sense of smell; in nonverbal com-
munication the effect of natural and artificial odors on
communication

84. organizational
competence

the ability to use rules and systems that dictate what we
can do with the forms of language

85. Output Hypothe-

sis

the claim, originating with Swain, that output serves as
important a role in second language acquisition as input

8 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

because it generates highly specific input that the cogni-
tive system needs to build up a coherent set of knowledge

86. overgeneraliza-

tion

the process of generalizing a particular rule or item in
the second language, irrespective of the native language,
beyond conventional rules or boundaries

87. overt error

an error that is unquestionably ungrammatical at the sen-
tence level

88. pedagogical

activities or techniques that occur in the classroom

tasks

89. perlocutionary

force

the effect and importance of the consequences of com-
municative speech acts

90.

91.

intentional learn-
ing

see explicit learning

interaction hy-
pothesis

the claim, by Long, that language competence is the
result not only of input, but also of interaction between a
learner's input and output

92.

interactional
competence

the ability to interact communicatively with a focus on
such interactional factors as participant identity, construc-
tion of interpersonal meanings, turn-taking, and socio-
pragmatics

93.

interference

negative transfer in which a previous item is incorrectly
transferred or incorrectly associated with an item to be
learned

94.

interlanguage

learner language that emphasizes the separateness of a
second language learner's system, a system that has a
structurally intermediate status between the native and
target languages

95.

interlingual
transfer

the effect of one language (usually the first) on another
(usually the second)

9 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

96.

97.

intralingual
transfer

the effect of forms of one language (usually the target
language) on other forms within the same language

intrinsic motiva-
tion

choices made and effort expended on activities for which
there is no apparent reward except the activity itself

98.

introversion

the extent to which a person derives a sense of whole-
ness and fulfillment from "within," apart from a reflection
of this self from other people, as opposed to extroversion

99. kinesics

body language, gesture, eye contact, and other physical
features of nonverbal communication

100. kinesthetic

learning style

the tendency to prefer demonstrations and physical activ-
ity involving bodily movement

101. kinesthetics

in nonverbal communication, conventions for how to
touch others where to touch them

102. language ac-

quisition device
(LAD)

103. learning strate-

gies

104. learning style

105. local error

an innate, metaphorical "mechanism" in young children's
brains that predisposes them to acquire language

strategic options relating to input, processing, storage,
and taking in messages from others, as opposed to com-
munication strategies

cognitive, affective, and physiological traits that are rela-
tively stable learners perceive, interact with, and respond
to the learning environment

an error that does not prevent a message from being
understood, usually due to a minor violation of one seg-
ment of a sentence, allowing the hearer/reader to make
an accurate guess about the intended meaning

106. meaningful
learning

anchoring and relating new items and experiences to
knowledge that exists in the cognitive framework (see
subsumption)

10 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

107. metacognitive
strategies

strategic options that relate to one's "executive" func-
tions; strategies that involve planning for learning, thinking
about the learning process as it is taking place, monitoring
of one's production or comprehension, and evaluating
learning is completed

108. metalinguistic
feedback

responses to a learner's output that provide comments,
information, or questions related to the linguistics form(s)
of the learner's utterance

109. field indepen-

dence

ability to perceive a particular, relevant item or factor in a
"field" of distracting items

110. fluency

the unfettered flow of language production or comprehen-
sion usually without focal attention on language forms

111. form-focused in-

struction (FFI)

any pedagogical effort used to draw a learner's attention
to language form either implicitly or explicitly

112. fossilization

the relatively permanent incorporation of incorrect linguis-
tic forms into a person's second language competence;
also referred to as stabilization

113. functional syl-

see notional-functional syllabus

labus

114. global error

an error that hinders communication or prevents a hearer
(or reader) from comprehending some aspect of a mes-
sage

115. Grammar Trans-

lation Method

a language teaching method in which the central focus is
on grammatical rules, paradigms, and vocabulary memo-
rization as the basis for translating from one language to
another

116. grammatical
competence

an aspect of communicative competence that encom-
passes knowledge of lexical items and of rules of mor-
phology, syntax, sentence-level grammar, semantics, and
phonology

11 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

117. Grice's maxims criteria for analyzing why speakers are sometimes inef-

fective in conversations

118. haptics

see kinesthetics

119. illocutionary
competence

the ability to send and receive intended meanings

120. illocutionary

force

the intended meaning of the utterance or text within its
context

121. implicit knowl-

edge

information that is automatically and spontaneously used
in language tasks

122. implicit learning acquisition of linguistic competence without intention to

learn and without focal awareness of what has been
learned, as opposed to explicit learning

123. impulsive style

the tendency to make quick decisions in answer to prob-
lems; sometimes, but not always, those decisions involve
risk-taking or guessing

124. incidental learn-

ing

learning without central attention to form (see implicit
learning)

125. induced errors

errors caused by something in the learner's teacher, a
textbook, or the classroom methodology

126. inhibition

apprehension over one's self-identity or fear of showing
self-doubt, to building initiation

127. instrumental ori-

entation

acquiring a language as a means for attaining instru-
mental goals, such as acquiring a degree or certificate
in an academic institution, furthering a career, reading
technical material, translation, etc.

128. intake

what is actually remembered, subsumed, and internal-
ized from various inputs to the learner, especially teacher
input

12 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

129. integrative orien-

tation

learning a language in order to integrate oneself into the
culture of a second language group and become involved
in social interchange in that group

130. culture shock

in the process of acculturation, phenomena involving mild
irritability, depression, anger, or possibly deep psycholog-
ical crisis due to the foreignness of the new cultural milieu

131. debilitative anxi-

ety

feelings of worry that are perceived as detrimental to
one's self-efficacy or that hinder one's performance

132. declarative
knowledge

consciously known and verbalizable facts, knowledge,
and information (in linguistics, about language)

133. Direct Method

a language teaching method popular in the early twenti-
eth century that emphasized direct target language use,
oral communication skills, and inductive grammar, without
recourse to translation from the first language

134. discourse com-

petence

the ability to connect sentences in stretches of discourse
and to form a meaningful whole out of a series of utter-
ances

135. elicitation

a corrective technique that prompts the learner to self-cor-
rect elicited response behavior resulting from a preceding
outside stimulus

136. emergent stage (of learner language) one in which the learner grows in

consistency in linguistic production

137. error analysis

the study of learners' ill-formed production (spoken or
written) in an effort to discover systematicity

138. explicit correc-

tion

an indication to a student that a form is incorrect and
providing a corrected form

139. explicit knowl-

edge

information that a person knows about language, and
usually, the ability to articulate that information

140. explicit learning

13 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

acquisition of linguistic competence with conscious
awareness of, or focal attention on, the forms of language,
usually in the context of instruction

141. extrinsic motiva-

tion

choices made and effort expended on activities in antici-
pation of a reward from outside and beyond the self

142. extroversion

the extent to which a person has a deep-seated need to
receive ego enhancement, self-esteem, and a sense of
wholeness from other people, as opposed to receiving
that affirmation within oneself, as opposed to introversion

143. facilitative anxi-

ety

"helpful" anxiety, euphoric tension, or the beneficial ef-
fects of apprehension over a task to be accomplished

144. field dependence the tendency to be "dependent" on the total field so that
the parts embedded in the field are not easily perceived,
although that total field is perceived more clearly as a
unified whole

145. clarification re-

quest

an elicitation of a reformulation or repetition from a stu-
dent

146. code-switching in bilinguals, the act of inserting words, phrases, or even

longer stretches of one language into the other

147. cognitive strate-

gies

strategic options relating to specific learning tasks that
involve direct manipulation of the learning material itself

148. communication
strategies

strategic options relating to output, how one productive-
ly expresses meaning, and how one effectively delivers
messages to others (see learning strategies)

149. communicative
competence
(CC)

the cluster of abilities that enable humans to convey and
interpret messages and to negotiate meanings interper-
sonally within specific

150. communicative
Language
Teaching (CLT)

an approach to language teaching methodology that em-
phasizes authenticity, interaction, student-centered learn-
ing, task-based

14 / 15

PLLT (Glossary)
https://quizlet.com/_bvrgl8Ð(cid:28) (|x<\ YµX0

151. community Lan-
guage Learning
(CLL)

language teaching method that emphasizes interperson-
al relationships, inductive learning, and Views the teacher
as a "counselor"

152. compensatory
strategies

strategic options designed to overcome self-perceived
weaknesses, such as using prefabricated patterns,
code-switching, and appeal to authority

153. Contrastive
Analysis
Hypothesis
(CAH)

the claim that the principal barrier to second language
acquisition is first language interference, and that a sci-
entific analysis of the two languages in question enables
the prediction of difficulties a learner will encounter

154. contrastive
rhetoric

naturally occurring discourses, usually written, across dif-
ferent languages and cultures

155. controlled
processes

capacity limited and temporary cognitive efforts, as op-
posed to automatic processes

156. corpus linguis-

tics

an approach to linguistic research that relies on computer
analyses of a collection, or corpus, of texts—written, tran-
scribed speech, or both—stored in electronic form and
analyzed with the help of computer software programs

157. covert error

an error that is grammatically well formed at the sentence
level but not interpretable within the context of communi-
cation; a discourse error

15 / 15

